RETURN 
OF THE 
JEDI

by
Lawrence Kasdan
&
George Lucas

From The Novel
by
George Lucas

Third Draft

Property of Lucasfilm Ltd.


Completion Date December 1, 1981

1    SPACE                                                           

The boundless heavens serve as a back-drop for the MAIN TITLE, followed 
by a ROLL-UP, which crawls into infinity.

Episode VI
RETURN OF THE JEDI

Luke Skywalker has returned to his home planet of Tatooine in an 
attempt to rescue his friend Han Solo from the clutches of the√ävile 
gangster Jabba the Hutt. Little does Luke know that the GALACTIC EMPIRE 
has secretly begun construction on a new armored space station even 
more powerful than the first dreaded Death Star. When completed, this 
ultimate weapon will spell certain doom for the small band of Rebels 
struggling to restore freedom to the galaxy...

PAN DOWN to reveal a monstrous half-completed Death Star, its massive 
superstructure curling away from the completed section like the arms of 
a giant octopus. Beyond, in benevolent contrast, floats the small, 
green moon of ENDOR.

An Imperial Star Destroyer moves overhead toward the massive armored 
space station, followed by two zipping TIE fighters. A small Imperial 
shuttle rockets from the main bay of the ship and hustles toward the 
Death Star.

2    INT IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT 
The shuttle captain makes contact with the Death Star.

SHUTTLE CAPTAIN
Command station, this is ST 321. Code Clearance Blue. We're starting 
our approach. Deactivate the security shield.

DEATH STAR CONTROLLER	(filtered VO)
The security deflector shield will be deactivated when we have 
confirmation of your code transmission. Stand by... You are clear to 
proceed.

SHUTTLE CAPTAIN
We're starting our approach.

3    INT DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Operators move about among the control panels. A SHIELD OPERATOR hits 
switches beside a large screen, on which is a display of the Death 
Star, the moon Endor, and a bright web delineating the invisible 
deflector shield.

A control officer rushes over to the shield operator.

OFFICER
Inform the commander that Lord Vader's shuttle has arrived.

OPERATOR
Yes, sir.

The control officer moves to a view port and watches as the Imperial 
shuttle lands in the massive docking bay. A squad of Imperial 
stormtroopers moves into formation before the craft.

4    INT DEATH STAR - MAIN DOCKING BAY

The DEATH STAR COMMANDER, MOFF JERJERROD, a tall, confident technocrat, 
strides through the assembled troops to the base of the shuttle ramp. 
The troops snap to attention; many are uneasy about the new arrival. 
But the Death Star commander stands arrogantly tall.

The exit hatch of the shuttle opens with a WHOOSH, revealing only 
darkness. Then, heavy FOOTSTEPS AND MECHANICAL BREATHING. From this 
black void appears DARTH VADER, LORD OF THE SITH. Vader looks over the 
assemblage as he walks down the ramp.

JERJERROD
Lord Vader, this is an unexpected pleasure. We're honored by your 
presence.

VADER
You may dispense with the pleasantries, Commander. I'm here to put you 
back on
schedule.

The commander turns ashen and begins to shake.

JERJERROD
I assure you, Lord Vader, my men are working as fast as they can.

VADER
Perhaps I can find new ways to motivate them.

JERJERROD
I tell you, this station will be operational as planned.

VADER
The Emperor does not share your optimistic appraisal of the situation.

JERJERROD
But he asks the impossible. I need more men.

VADER
Then perhaps you can tell him when he arrives.

JERJERROD	 (aghast)
The Emperor's coming here?

VADER
That is correct, Commander. And he is most displeased with your 
apparent lack of progress.

JERJERROD
We shall double our efforts.

VADER
I hope so, Commander, for your sake. The Emperor is not as forgiving as 
I am.

5    EXT ROAD TO JABBA'S PALACE - TATOOINE

A lonely, windswept road meanders through the desolate Tatooine 
terrain. We HEAR a familiar BEEPING and a distinctive reply before 
catching sight of ARTOO-DETOO and SEE-THREEPIO, making their way along 
the road toward the ominous palace of Jabba the Hutt.

THREEPIO
Of course I'm worried. And you should be, too. Lando Calrissian and 
poor Chewbacca never returned from this awful place.

Artoo whistles timidly.

THREEPIO
Don't be so sure. If I told you half the things I've heard about this 
Jabba the Hutt, you'd probably short-circuit.

The two droids fearfully approach the massive gate to the palace.

THREEPIO
Artoo, are you sure this is the right place? I better knock, I suppose.

6    EXT JABBA'S PALACE - GATE 

Threepio looks around for some kind of signaling device, then timidly 
knocks on the iron door.

THREEPIO	 (instantly) 
There doesn't seem to be anyone there. Let's go back and tell Master 
Luke.

A small hatch in the middle of the door opens and a spidery mechanical 
arm, with a large electronic eyeball on the end, pops out and inspects 
the two droids.

STRANGE VOICE
Tee chuta hhat yudd!

THREEPIO
Goodness gracious me!

 Threepio points to Artoo, then to himself.

 THREEPIO
 Artoo Detoowha bo Seethreepiowha ey toota odd mischka Jabba du Hutt.

The eye looks from one robot to the other, there is a laugh then the 
eye zips back into the door. The hatch slams shut. Artoo beeps his 
concern.

THREEPIO
I don't think they're going to let us in, Artoo. We'd better go.

Artoo beeps his reluctance as Threepio turns to leave. Suddenly the 
massive door starts to rise with a horrific metallic SCREECH. The 
robots turn back and face an endless black cavity. The droids look at 
one another, afraid to enter.

Artoo starts forward into the gloom. Threepio rushes after his stubby 
companion. The door lowers noisily behind them.

THREEPIO 
Artoo, wait. Oh, dear! Artoo. Artoo, I really don't think we should 
rush into all this.

Artoo continues down the corridor, with Threepio following.

THREEPIO
Oh, Artoo!  Artoo, wait for me!

7    INT JABBA'S PALACE - HALLWAY

The door slams shut with a loud crash that echoes throughout the dark 
passageway. The frightened robots are met by two giant, green GAMORREAN 
GUARDS, who fall in behind them. Threepio glances quickly back at the 
two lumbering brutes, then back to Artoo. One guard grunts an order. 
Artoo beeps nervously.

THREEPIO
Just you deliver Master Luke's message and get us out of here. Oh my! 
Oh! Oh, no.

Walking toward them out of the darkness is BIB FORTUNA, a humanlike 
alien with long tentacles protruding from his skull.

BIB
Die Wanna Wanga!

THREEPIO
Oh, my! Die Wanna Wauaga. We -- we bring a message to your master, 
Jabba the Hutt.

Artoo lets out a series of quick beeps.

THREEPIO	 (cont)
...and a gift.
(thinks a moment, then to Artoo)
Gift, what gift?

Bib shakes his head negatively.

BIB
Nee Jabba no badda. Me chaade su goodie.

Bib holds out his hand toward Artoo and the tiny droid backs up a bit, 
letting out a protesting array of squeaks. Threepio turns to the 
strange-looking alien.

THREEPIO
He says that our instructions are to give it only to Jabba himself.

Bib thinks about this for a moment.

THREEPIO
I'm terribly sorry. I'm afraid he's ever so stubborn about these sort 
of things.

Bib gestures for the droids to follow.

BIB
Nudd Chaa.

The droids follow the tall, tentacled alien into the darkness, trailed 
by the two guards.

THREEPIO
Artoo, I have a bad feeling about this.

8    INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM

The throne room is filled with the vilest, most grotesque CREATURES 
ever conceived in the universe. Artoo and Threepio seem very small as 
they pause in the doorway to the dimly lit chamber. Light shafts 
partially illuminate the drunken courtiers as Bib Fortuna crosses the 
room to the platform upon which rests the leader of this nauseating 
crowd: JABBA THE HUTT. The monarch of the galactic underworld is a 
repulsive blob of bloated fat with a maniacal grin. Chained to the 
horrible creature is the beautiful alien female dancer named OOLA. At 
the foot of the dais sits an obnoxious birdlike creature, SALACIOUS 
CRUMB. Bib whispers something in the slobbering degenerate's ear. Jabba 
laughs horribly, at the two terrified droids before him. Threepio bows 
politely.

THREEPIO
Good morning.

JABBA
Bo Shuda!

The robots jump forward to stand before the repulsive, loose-skinned 
villain.

THREEPIO
The message, Artoo, the message.

Artoo whistles, and a beam of light projects from his domed head, 
creating a hologram of LUKE on the floor. The image grows to over ten 
feet tall, and the young Jedi towers over the space gangsters.

LUKE
Greetings, Exalted One. Allow me to introduce myself. I am Luke 
Skywalker, Jedi Knight and friend to Captain Solo. I know that you are 
powerful, mighty Jabba, and that your anger with Solo must be equally 
powerful. I seek an audience with Your Greatness to bargain for Solo's 
life. 
(Jabba's crowd laughs) 
With your wisdom, I'm sure that we can work out an arrangement which 
will be mutually beneficial and enable us to avoid any unpleasant 
confrontation. As a token of my goodwill, I present to you a gift: 
these two droids.

Threepio is startled by this announcement.

THREEPIO
What did he say?

LUKE	 (cont)
... Both are hardworking and will serve you well.

THREEPIO
This can't be! Artoo, you're playing the wrong message.

Luke's hologram disappears.

Jabba laughs while Bib speaks to him in Huttese.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
There will be no bargain.

THREEPIO
We're doomed.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
I will not give up my favorite decoration. I like Captain Solo where he 
is.

Jabba laughs hideously and looks toward an alcove beside the throne. 
Hanging high, flat against the wall, exactly as we saw him last, is a 
carbonized HAN SOLO.

THREEPIO
Artoo, look! Captain Solo. And he's still frozen in carbonite.

9    INT DUNGEON CORRIDOR 

One of Jabba's Gamorrean guards marches Artoo and Threepio down a dank, 
shadowy passageway lined with holding cells. The cries of unspeakable 
creatures bounce off the cold stone walls. Occasionally a repulsive arm 
or tentacle grabs through the bars at the hapless droids. Artoo beeps 
pitifully.

THREEPIO
What could possibly have come over Master Luke. Is it something I did? 
He never expressed any unhappiness with my work. Oh! Oh! Hold it! Ohh!

A large tentacle wraps around Threepio's neck. He manages to break 
free, and they move on to a door at the end of the corridor.

10   INT BOILER ROOM

The door slides open, revealing a room filled with steam and noisy 
machinery. The guard motions them into the boiler room, where they are 
met by a tall, thin humanlike robot named EV-9D9. Behind the robot can 
be seen a torture rack pulling the legs off a screaming baby work 
droid. A second power droid is upside down.  As smoking branding irons 
are pressed into his feet, the stubby robot lets out an agonized 
electronic scream. Artoo and Threepio cringe as the guard grunts to EV-
9D9.

NINEDENINE
Ah, good. New acquisitions. You are a protocol droid, are you not?

THREEPIO
I am See-Threepio, human-cy...

NINEDENINE
Yes or no will do.

THREEPIO
Oh. Well, yes.

NINEDENINE
How many languages do you speak?

THREEPIO
I am fluent in over six million forms of communication, and can 
readily...

NINEDENINE
Splendid! We have been without an interpreter since our master got 
angry with our last protocol droid and disintegrated him.

THREEPIO
Disintegrated?

NINEDENINE	 (to a Gamorrean guard)
Guard! This protocol droid might be useful. Fit him with a restraining 
bolt and take him back to His Excellency's main audience chamber.

The guard shoves Threepio toward the door.

THREEPIO	 (disappearing)
Artoo, don't leave me! Ohhh!

Artoo lets out a plaintive cry as the door closes. Then he beeps 
angrily.

NINEDENINE
You're a feisty little one, but you'll soon learn some respect. I have 
need for you on the master's Sail Barge. And I think you'll fit in 
nicely.

The poor work droid in the background lets out another tortured 
electronic scream.

11   INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM

The court of Jabba the Hutt is in the midst of a drunken, raucous 
party. Sloppy, smelly monsters cheer and make rude noises as Oola and a 
fat female dancer perform in front of Jabba's throne.

Jabba leers at the dancers and with a lustful gleam in his eye beckons 
Oola to come and sit with him. She stops dancing and backs away, 
shaking her head. Jabba gets angry and points to a spot next to him.

JABBA
Da Eitha!

The lovely alien shakes her head again and screams.

OOLA
Na Chuba negatorie Na! Na! Natoota...

Jabba is furious and pulls her toward him, tugging on the chain.

JABBA
Boscka!

He pushes a button and, before the dancer can flee, a trap door in the 
floor springs open and swallows her up. As the door snaps shut, a 
muffled growl is followed by a hideous scream. Jabba and his monstrous 
friends laugh hysterically and several revelers hurry over to watch her 
fate through a grate.

Threepio cringes and glances wistfully at the carbonite form of Han 
Solo, but is immediately distracted by a gunshot offscreen.√äAn 
unnatural quiet sweeps the boisterous gathering. On the far side of the 
room, the crush of debauchers moves aside to allow the approach of two 
guards followed by BOUSHH, an oddly cloaked bounty hunter, leading his 
captive, Han Solo's copilot, CHEWBACCA THE WOOKIEE.

Bib takes his place next to his disgusting master, and whispers into 
his ear, pointing at Chewbacca and the bounty hunter. Jabba listens 
intently, then the bounty hunter bows before the gangster and speaks a 
greeting in a strange, electronically processed tongue (Ubese).

BOUSHH	 (in Ubese subtitled)
I have come for the bounty on this Wookiee.

THREEPIO
Oh, no! Chewbacca!

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
At last we have the mighty Chewbacca.

Jabba lets out a loud, long, blood-curdling laugh and turns to 
Threepio, waving him closer. The reluctant droid obeys.

THREEPIO
Oh, uh, yes, uh, I am here, Your Worshipfulness. Uh... yes!

Jabba continues speaking, as Threepio nervously translates. Boushh 
listens, studying the dangerous creatures around the room. He notices 
BOBA FETT standing near the door.

THREEPIO
Oh. The illustrious Jabba bids you welcome and will gladly pay you the 
reward of twenty-five thousand.

BOUSHH	 (in Ubese subtitled)
I want fifty thousand. No less.

Jabba immediately flies into a rage, knocking the golden droid off the 
raised throne into a clattering heap on the floor. Boushh adjusts his 
weapon as Jabba raves in Huttese and Threepio struggles back onto the 
throne. The disheveled droid tries to compose himself.

THREEPIO
Uh, oh... but what, what did I say?
(to Boushh)
Uh, the mighty Jabba asks why he must pay fifty thousand.

The bounty hunter holds up a small silver ball in his hand. Threepio 
looks at it, then looks at Jabba, then back to the bounty hunter. The 
droid is very nervous and Jabba is getting very impatient.

THREEPIO
Because he's holding a thermal detonator.

The guards instantly back away, as do most of the other monsters in the 
room. Jabba stares at the silver ball, which begins to glow in the 
bounty hunter's hand. The room has fallen into a tense hush. Jabba 
stares at the bounty hunter malevolently until a sly grin creeps across 
his vast mouth and he begins to laugh.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
This bounty hunter is my kind of scum. Fearless and inventive.

Jabba continues.

THREEPIO
Jabba offers the sum of thirty-five. And I suggest you take it.

Bib and the other monsters study the bounty hunter and wait for his 
reaction. Boushh releases a switch on the thermal detonator and it goes 
dead.

BOUSHH
Zeebuss.

THREEPIO
He agrees!

The raucous crowd of monsters erupts in a symphony of cheers and 
applause as the party returns to its full noisy pitch. Chewbacca 
growls. As he is led away we spot LANDO CALRISSIAN, disguised as a 
skiff guard in a partial face mask. The band starts up and dancing 
girls take the center of the floor, to the hoots of the loudly 
appreciative creatures.

Boushh leans against a column with gunfighter cool and surveys the 
scene, his gaze stopping only when it connects with a glare from across 
the room. Boba Fett is watching him. Boushh shifts slightly, cradling 
his weapon lovingly. Boba Fett shifts with equally ominous arrogance.

12   INT DUNGEON CORRIDOR AND CELL

Gamorrean guards lead Chewie down the same hallway we saw before. When 
a tentacle reaches out at the Wookiee, Chewie's ferocious ROAR echoes 
against the walls and the tentacle snaps back into its cell in terror. 
It takes all the guards to hurl Chewie roughly into a cell, slamming 
the door behind him. Chewie lets out a pathetic howl and bangs on the 
iron door.

13   EXT JABBA'S PALACE

The palace is sitting in the light of the double sunset. On the road in 
front, a large toadlike creature flicks its tongue out for a desert 
rodent and burps in satisfaction.

14   INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM - NIGHT

Silence. The room is deserted, only the awful debris of the alien 
celebration giving mute witness to the activity here before. Several 
drunk creatures lie unconscious around the room, snoring loudly.

A shadowy figure moves stealthily among the columns at the perimeter of 
the room and is revealed to be Boushh, the bounty hunter. He picks his 
way carefully through the snoring, drunken monsters.

Han Solo, the frozen space pirate, hangs spotlighted on the wall, his 
coffin-like case suspended by a force field. The bounty hunter 
deactivates the force field by flipping a control switch to one side of 
the coffin. The heavy case slowly lowers to the floor of the alcove.

Boushh steps up to the case, studying Han, and then turns to the 
controls on the side of the coffin. He activates a series of switches 
and, after one last hesitant look at Han, slides the de-carbonization 
lever. The case begins to emit a sound as the hard shell covering the 
contours of Han's face begins to melt away. The bounty hunter watches 
as Han's body is freed of its metallic coat and his forearms and hands, 
previously raised in reflexive protest, drop slackly to his side. His 
face muscles relax from their mask of horror. He appears quite dead.

Boushh's ugly helmet leans close to Han's face listening for the breath 
of life. Nothing. He waits. Han's eyes pop open with a start and he 
begins coughing. The bounty hunter steadies the staggering newborn.

BOUSHH
Just relax for a moment. You're free of the carbonite.

Han touches his face with his hand and moans.

BOUSHH
Shhh. You have hibernation sickness.

HAN
I can't see.

BOUSHH
Your eyesight will return in time.

HAN
Where am I?

BOUSHH
Jabba's palace.

HAN
Who are you?

The bounty hunter reaches up and lifts the helmet from his head, 
revealing the beautiful face of PRINCESS LEIA.

LEIA
Someone who loves you.

HAN
Leia!

LEIA
I gotta get you out of here.

As Leia helps her weakened lover to stand up, the relative quiet is 
pierced by an obscene HUTTESE CACKLE from the other side of the alcove.

HAN
What's that? I know that laugh.

The curtain on the far side of the alcove opens, revealing Jabba the 
Hutt, surrounded by Bib and other aliens. He laughs again, and his 
gross cronies join in a cacophony of alien glee.

HAN
Hey, Jabba. Look, Jabba, I was just on my way to pay you back, but I 
got a little sidetracked. It's not my fault.

Jabba laughs.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
It's too late for that, Solo. You may have been a good smuggler, but 
now you're Bantha fodder.

HAN
Look...

JABBA	 (cont Huttese subtitled)
Take him away!

The guards grab Han and start to lead him away.

HAN
Jabba... I'll pay you triple! You're throwing away a fortune here. 
Don't be a fool!

Han is dragged off, as Lando quickly moves forward and attempts to lead 
Leia away.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Bring her to me.

Jabba chuckles as Lando and a second guard drag the beautiful young 
princess toward him. Threepio peeks from behind a monster and quickly 
turns away in disgust.

LEIA
We have powerful friends. You're gonna regret this...

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
I'm sure.

Inexorably her lovely face moves to within a few inches of Jabba's ugly 
blob of a head, and Leia turns away in disgust.

LEIA
Ugh!

THREEPIO
Ohhh, I can't bear to watch.

15   INT DUNGEON CELL

The heavy metal door of the dungeon whines and slowly creaks open. A 
guard throws the blinded star captain into the dark cell and the door 
slams shut behind him, leaving only a thin sliver of light from a crack 
in the door. Han is trying to collect himself when suddenly a growl is 
heard from the far side of the cell. He jumps back against the cell 
door and listens.

HAN
Chewie? Chewie, is that you?

The shadowy figure lets out a crazy yell and races toward Han, lifting 
him off the ground with a big hug that carries them into the light, 
revealing Chewie.

HAN
Ah! Chew--Chewie!

The giant Wookiee barks with glee.

HAN
Wait. I can't see, pal. What's goin' on?

Chewie barks an excited blue streak.

HAN
Luke? Luke's crazy. He can't even take care of himself, much less 
rescue anybody.

Chewie barks a reply.

HAN
A...Jedi Knight? I--I'm out of it for a little while, everybody gets 
delusions of grandeur.

Chewie growls insistently. He holds Han to his chest and pets his head.

HAN
I'm all right, pal. I'm all right.

16   INT MAIN GATE AND HALL - JABBA'S PALACE

Noisily, the main gate lifts to flood the blackness with blinding LIGHT 
and reveal the silhouetted figure of LUKE SKYWALKER. He is clad in a 
robe similar to Ben's and wears neither pistol nor laser sword. Luke 
strides purposefully into the hallway. Two giant guards move to block 
Luke's path. Luke halts.

Luke raises his hand and points at the puzzled guards, who immediately 
lower their spears and fall back. The young Jedi lowers his hand and 
moves on down the hallway.

Bib Fortuna appears out of the gloom. He speaks to Luke as they 
approach each other, but Luke doesn't stop and Bib must reverse his 
direction and hurry alongside the young Jedi in order to carry on the 
conversation. Several other guards fall in behind them in the darkness.

LUKE
I must speak with Jabba.

Bib answers in Huttese, shaking his head in denial. Luke stops and 
stares at Bib; he raises his hand slightly.

LUKE
You will take me to Jabba now!

Bib turns in hypnotic response to Luke's command, and Luke follows him 
into the gloom.

LUKE
You serve your master well.

Bib responds.

LUKE
And you will be rewarded.

17   INT JABBA'S THRONE ROOM

Jabba is asleep on his throne, with Leia lying in front of him. 
Salacious sits by Jabba's tail, watching it wriggle. Leia is now 
dressed in the skimpy costume of a dancing girl; a chain runs from a 
manacle/necklace at her throat to her new master, Jabba the Hutt. 
Threepio stands behind Jabba as Bib comes up to the gangster slug.

THREEPIO
At last! Master Luke's come to rescue me.

BIB
Master.

Jabba awakens with a start and Bib continues, in Huttese.

BIB
...Luke Skywalker, Jedi Knight.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
I told you not to admit him.

LUKE
I must be allowed to speak.

BIB	 (in Huttese subtitled)
He must be allowed to speak.

Jabba, furious, clobbers Bib and shoves him away.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
You weak-minded fool! He's using an old Jedi mind trick.

Luke stares hard at Jabba.

LUKE
You will bring Captain Solo and the Wookiee to me.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Your mind powers will not work on me, boy.

LUKE
Nevertheless, I'm taking Captain Solo and his friends. You can either 
profit by this... or be destroyed! It's your choice. But I warn you not 
to underestimate my powers.

Jabba's laugh is mean and loud. Threepio attempts to warn Luke about 
the pit.

THREEPIO
Master Luke, you're standing on...

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
There will be no bargain, young Jedi. I shall enjoy watching you die.

Luke reaches out, and a pistol jumps out of a guard's holster and flies 
into Luke's hand. The bewildered guard grabs for it as Jabba raises his 
hand.

JABBA
Bascka!

The floor suddenly drops away, sending Luke and the hapless guard into 
the pit. The pistol goes off, blasting a hole in the ceiling. Jabba 
laughs and his courtiers join in. Leia starts forward but is restrained 
by a human guard-- Lando, recognizable behind his mask. She looks at 
him and he shakes his head "no."

18   INT RANCOR PIT

Luke and the guard have dropped twenty-five feet from a chute into the 
dungeonlike cage. Luke gets to his feet as the guard yells hysterically 
for help. A crowd gathers up around the edge of the pit as the door in 
the side of the pit starts to RUMBLE open. The guard screams in panic. 
Luke looks calmly around for a means of escape.

THREEPIO
Oh, no! The Rancor!

At the side of the pit, an iron door rumbles upward and a giant, fanged 
RANCOR emerges. The guard runs to the side of the pit and tries 
futilely to scramble to the top. The hideous beast closes in on him.

The Rancor moves past Luke, and as the guard continues to scramble, the 
Rancor picks him up and pops him into its slavering jaws. A few 
screams, and the guard is swallowed with a gulp. The audience cheers 
and laughs at the guard's fate.

The monster turns and starts for Luke. The young Jedi dashes away just 
ahead of the monster's swipe at him, and picks up the long arm bone of 
an earlier victim. The monster grabs Luke and brings him up to his 
salivating mouth. At the last moment, Luke wedges the bone in the 
monster's mouth and is dropped to the floor. The monster bellows in 
rage and flails about, hitting the side of the pit, causing an 
avalanche.

The monster crushes the bone in its jaws and sees Luke, who squeezes 
into a crevice in the pit wall. Luke looks past the monster to the 
holding cave beyond. On the far side of the holding cave is a utility 
door--if only he can get to it. The Rancor spots Luke and reaches into 
the crevice for him. Luke grabs a large rock and raises it, smashing it 
down on the Rancor's finger.

19   HOLDING TUNNEL - RANCOR PIT

The Rancor lets out a loud howl as Luke makes a run for the holding 
cave. He reaches the door and pushes a button to open it. When he 
succeeds, he sees a heavy barred gate between him and safety. Beyond 
the gate two guards look up from their dinner. Luke turns to see the 
monster heading for him, and pulls with all his might on the gate. The 
guards move to the gate and start poking at the young Jedi with spears, 
laughing.

Luke crouches (against the wall) as the monster starts to reach for 
him. Suddenly he notices a main door control panel halfway up the wall. 
As the Rancor moves in for the kill, Luke picks up a skull from the 
cave floor and hurls it at the panel. The giant overhead door comes 
crashing down on the beast's head, squashing it like a sledgehammer on 
an egg.

A startled gasp is heard from the stunned court. There's consternation 
at this turn of events. Heads look to Jabba, who is actually turning 
red with anger. Leia cannot suppress her joy. Jabba utters harsh 
commands to his guards and they hurry off.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Bring me Solo and the Wookiee. They will all suffer for this outrage.

21   INT RANCOR PIT

The Rancor KEEPERS have come into the cage and are examining their dead 
beast. One of them breaks down and weeps. The other glares menacingly 
at Luke, who is unworried. Several guards rush into the holding tunnel 
and take Luke away.

22   INT THRONE ROOM

The crowd of creepy courtiers parts as Han and Chewie are brought into 
the throne room, and other guards drag Luke up the steps.

LUKE
Han!

HAN
Luke!

LUKE
Are you all right?

HAN
Fine. Together again, huh?

LUKE
Wouldn't miss it.

HAN
How are we doing?

LUKE
The same as always.

HAN
That bad, huh? Where's Leia?

Luke looks to Leia.

LEIA
I'm here.

Threepio is standing behind the grotesque gangster as he strokes Leia 
like a pet cat. Several of the guards, including Lando, bring Luke from 
the other side of the room. Boba is standing behind Jabba.

Threepio steps forward and translates for the captives.

THREEPIO
Oh, dear. His High Exaltedness, the great Jabba the Hutt, has decreed 
that you are to be terminated immediately.

HAN
Good, I hate long waits.

THREEPIO
You will therefore be taken to the Dune Sea and cast into the pit of 
Carkoon, the nesting place of the all-powerful Sarlacc.

HAN	 (to Luke)
Doesn't sound so bad.

THREEPIO
In his belly, you will find a new definition of pain and suffering, as 
you are slowly digested over a thousand years.

HAN
On second thought, let's pass on that, huh?

Chewie barks his agreement.

LUKE
You should have bargained, Jabba. That's the last mistake you'll ever 
make.

Jabba cackles evilly at this.

As the guards drag the prisoners from the throne room, a loud cheer 
rises from the crowd. Leia and Chewie exchange concerned looks, but 
Luke Skywalker, Jedi warrior, cannot suppress a smile.

23   EXT TATOOINE SEA - SKIFF

Jabba's huge SAIL BARGE moves above the desert surface accompanied by 
two smaller Skiffs. One of the skiffs glides close, revealing Luke, 
Han, and Chewie -- all in bonds -- surrounded by guards, one of whom is 
Lando in disguise.

HAN
I think my eyes are getting better. Instead of a big dark blur, I see a 
big light blur.

LUKE
There's nothing to see. I used to live here, you know.

HAN
You're gonna die here, you know. Convenient.

LUKE
Just stick close to Chewie and Lando. I've taken care of everything.

HAN
Oh... great!

24   INT BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

Jabba the Hutt rides like a sultan in the massive antigravity ship. His 
entire retinue is with him, drinking, eating, and having a good time. 
Leia is watching her friends in the skiff when the chain attached to 
her neck is pulled tight and Jabba tugs the scantily clad princess to 
him.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Soon you will learn to appreciate me.

Threepio wanders among the Sail Barge aliens, bumping into a smaller 
droid serving drinks, spilling them all over the place. The stubby 
droid lets out an angry series of beeps and whistles.

THREEPIO
Oh, I'm terribly sor... Artoo! What are you doing here?

Artoo beeps a quick reply.

THREEPIO
Well, I can see you're serving drinks, but this place is dangerous. 
They're going to execute Master Luke and, if we're not careful, us too!

Artoo whistles a singsong response.

THREEPIO
Hmm.  I wish I had your confidence.

25   EXT SARLACC PIT 

The convoy moves up over a huge sand pit. The Sail Barge stops to one 
side of the depression, as does the escort skiff. But the prisoner's 
skiff moves out directly over the center and hovers. At the bottom of 
the deep cone of sand is a repulsive, mucous-lined hole, surrounded by 
thousands of needle-sharp teeth. This is the SARLACC. A plank is 
extended from the edge of the prisoner's skiff. Guards release Luke's 
bonds and shove him out onto the plank above the Sarlacc's mouth.

26   EXT SAIL BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

Jabba and Leia are now by the rail, watching. Threepio leans forward 
and the slobbering villain mumbles something to him. As Threepio steps 
up to a comlink, Jabba raises his arm and the motley array of 
intergalactic pirates fall silent. Threepio's voice is amplified across 
loudspeakers.

THREEPIO
Victims of the almighty Sarlacc: His Excellency hopes that you will die 
honorably. But should any of you wish to beg for mercy, the great Jabba 
the Hutt will now listen to your pleas.

27   EXT SKIFF

Han steps forward arrogantly and begins to speak.

HAN
Threepio, you tell that slimy piece of... worm-ridden filth he'll get 
no such pleasure from us. Right?

Chewie growls his agreement.

LUKE
Jabba! This is your last chance. Free us or die.

Lando moves unobtrusively along the skiff as Luke shoots a quick look 
of conspiracy to him.

28   INT SAIL BARGE OBSERVATION DECK

The assembled monsters rock with mocking laughter as Artoo zips 
unnoticed up the ramp to the upper deck. Jabba's laughter subsides as 
he speaks into the comlink.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Move him into position.

Jabba makes a thumbs-down gesture. Leia looks worried.

29   EXT BARGE - UPPER DECK

Artoo appears from below and zips over to the rail facing the pit. 
Below, in the skiff, Luke is prodded by a guard to the edge of the 
plank over the gaping Sarlacc. Luke looks up at Artoo, then gives a 
jaunty salute: the signal the little droid has been waiting for. A flap 
opens in Artoo's domed head.

JABBA	 (in Huttese subtitled)
Put him in.

30   EXT SKIFF - PLANK

Luke is prodded and jumps off the plank to the cheers of the 
bloodthirsty spectators. But, before anyone can even perceive what is 
happening, he spins around and grabs the end of the plank by his 
fingertips. The plank bends wildly from his weight and catapults him 
skyward. In midair he does a complete flip and drops down on the end of 
the plank in the same spot he just vacated, but facing the skiff. He 
casually extends an open palm and -- his lightsaber, which Artoo has 
sent arcing toward him, drops into his hand.

With samurai speed, Luke ignites it and attacks the guard who prodded 
him off the plank, sending the hapless monster screaming overboard. The 
other guards swarm toward Luke. He wades into them, lightsaber 
flashing. Lando struggles with another guard at the back of the skiff.

31   EXT SARLACC PIT

A bewildered guard lands in the soft, sandy slope of the pit, and 
begins sliding. He claws desperately as a Sarlacc tentacle grabs him 
and pulls him screaming into the viscous mouth.

32   INT SAIL BARGE

Jabba watches this and explodes in rage. He barks commands, and the 
guards around him rush off to do his bidding. The scuzzy creatures 
watching the action from the window are in an uproar.

33   EXT SKIFF 

Luke knocks another guard off the skiff and into the waiting mouth of 
the Sarlacc. He starts to untie Chewie's bonds.

LUKE
Easy, Chewie.

At that moment, the deck gunmen on the barge unleash a series of blasts 
from a big cannon on the upper deck. Lando is tossed from the deck of 
the rocking skiff. He manages to grab a rope, and dangles desperately 
above the Sarlacc pit.

LANDO
Whoa! Whoa! Help!

34   EXT UPPER DECK - SAIL BARGE

With two swift strides, the dangerous Boba Fett ignites his rocket 
pack, leaps into the air, and flies from the barge down to the skiff.

35   EXT SKIFF

Boba lands on the skiff and starts to aim his laser gun at Luke, who 
has freed Han and Chewie from their bonds. But before Boba can fire, 
the young Jedi spins on him, lightsaber sweeping, and hacks the bounty 
hunter's gun in half.

Immediately, the skiff takes another direct hit from the barge's deck 
gun. Shards of skiff deck fly. Chewie and Han are thrown against the 
rail.

HAN
Chewie, you okay? Where is he?

The Wookiee is wounded and he howls in pain.

HAN
I'm okay, pal.

For a moment, Luke is distracted, and in that moment, Boba fires a 
cable out of his armored sleeve. Instantly, Luke is wrapped in a strong 
cable, his arms pinned against his side, his sword arm free only from 
the wrist down.  Luke bends his wrist so the lightsaber points straight 
up to reach the wire lasso and cuts through. Luke shrugs away the cable 
and stands free.

Another blast from the Barge's deck gun hits near Boba and he is 
knocked unconscious to the deck, next to where Lando is hanging.

LANDO
Han! Chewie?

HAN
Lando!

Luke is a little shaken but remains standing as a fusillade brackets 
him. The second skiff, loaded with guards firing their weapons, moves 
in on Luke fast. Luke leaps toward the incoming second skiff. The young 
Jedi leaps into the middle of the second skiff and begins decimating 
the guards from their midst.

Chewie, wounded, tries to lift himself as he barks directions to Han, 
guiding him toward a spear which has been dropped by one of the guards. 
Han searches the deck as Chewie barks directions; finally he grabs hold 
of the spear.

Boba Fett, badly shaken, rises from the deck. He looks over at the 
other skiff, where Luke is whipping a mass of guards. Boba raises his 
arm, and aims his lethal appendage.

Chewie barks desperately at Han.

HAN
Boba Fett?! Boba Fett?! Where?

The space pirate turns around blindly, and the long spear in his hand 
whacks squarely in the middle of Boba's rocket pack.

The impact of the swing causes the rocket pack to ignite. Boba blasts 
off, flying over the second skiff like a missile, smashing against the 
side of the huge Sail Barge and sliding away into the pit. He screams 
as his armored body makes its last flight past Lando and directly into 
the mucous mouth of the Sarlacc. The Sarlacc burps. Chewie growls a 
weak congratulations to Han.

36   INT SAIL BARGE

Leia turns from the spectacle outside, leaps onto Jabba's throne, and 
throws the chain that enslaves her over his head around his bulbous 
neck. Then she dives off the other side of the throne, pulling the 
chain violently in her grasp. Jabba's flaccid neck contracts beneath 
the tightening chain. His huge eyes bulge from their sockets and his 
scum-coated tongue flops out. The Exalted Hutt's huge tail spasms 
through its death throes and then slams down into final stillness. Leia 
struggles to free herself of her bondage.

37   EXT SKIFF

Luke continues to destroy the aliens on the guards' skiff, as Han 
extends his spear downward to Lando, who is still dangling precariously 
from a rope on the prisoner's skiff.

HAN
Lando, grab it!

LANDO
Lower it!

HAN
I'm trying!

A major hit from the barge deck gun knocks the skiff on its side. Han 
and almost everything else on board slides overboard. The rope breaks, 
and Lando falls to the side of the Sarlacc pit. Luckily, Han's foot 
catches on the skiff railing and he dangles above Lando and the pit. 
The wounded Wookiee holds onto the skiff for dear life as another hit 
from the deck gun rocks the skiff violently.

HAN
Whoa! Whoa! Grab me, Chewie! I'm slipping.

Chewie grabs hold of Han's feet, holding him upside down, as Han 
extends the spear toward Lando, who is clutching to the side of the 
pit.

HAN
Grab it! L--Lando. Grab!

Luke finishes off the last guard on the second skiff. He sees the deck 
gun blasting away at his helpless companions. Luke leaps from the 
skiff, across a chasm of air, to the sheer metallic side of the Sail 
Barge. Barely able to get a fingerhold, he begins a painful climb up 
the hull, when suddenly an ax smashes through a window an inch from his 
head. With Jedi agility, Luke grasps the wrist holding the ax and yanks 
the helpless guard through the broken window and into the deadly pit.

The injured Chewie is reaching over the rail for the dangling Han, who 
is in turn blindly reaching down toward the desperate Lando. The Baron 
has stopped his slippage down the sandy slope of the Sarlacc pit by 
lying very still. Every time he tries to reach for Han, the loose sand 
moves him closer to his final reward.

HAN
Grab it! Almost... You almost got it!

Another blast hits the front of the tilted skiff, causing Lando to let 
go of the spear.

LANDO
Hold it! Whoa!

Again Han extends the spear toward Lando.

HAN
Gently now. All... all right. Now easy, easy. Hold me, Chewie.

Lando screams. One of the Sarlacc's tentacles has wrapped tightly 
around his ankle, dragging him down the side of the pit.

HAN
Chewie! Chewie, give me the gun. Don't move, Lando.

LANDO
No, wait! I thought you were blind!

HAN
It's all right. Trust me. Don't move.

LANDO
All right! A little higher! Just a little higher!

Han adjusts his aim as Lando lowers his head, and the fuzzy-eyed pirate 
fires at the tentacle. Direct hit. The tentacle releases Lando, and 
Chewie starts to pull them on board the skiff.

HAN
Chewie, Pull us up! Come on! Okay... up, Chewie, up!

38   EXT UPPER DECK

The deck gunners have Chewie and the desperate dangling human chain in 
their gun sights when something up on deck commands their attention: 
Luke, standing before them like a pirate king, ignites his lightsaber. 
The deck gunners have barely reached for their pistols before the young 
Jedi has demolished them. Immediately, Luke turns to see two more 
gunners (who have been uncovering a giant gun at the end of the barge) 
racing for him, firing their laser pistols.

39   INT SAIL BARGE - OBSERVATION DECK

Leia is struggling against her chains in desperation as Artoo zips 
through the tumult of confused monsters to the rescue; the stubby 
little droid extends a small laser gun and blasts the chain apart.

LEIA
Come on. We gotta get out of here quick.

Artoo and Leia race for the exit, passing Threepio, who is kicking and 
screaming as Salacious Crumb, the reptilian monkey- monster picks out 
one of the golden droid's eyes.

THREEPIO
Not my eyes! Artoo, help! Quickly, Artoo. Oh! Ohhh! You beast!

Artoo zips over and zaps Salacious, sending him skyward with a scream, 
crashing into the rafters as Artoo, Leia, and Threepio (with his eye 
dangling from a wire) hurry off.

40   EXT UPPER DECK - SAIL BARGE

Luke is warding off laser blasts with his lightsaber, surrounded by 
guards and fighting like a demon. Leia emerges onto the deck as Luke 
turns to face another guard.

LUKE	 (to Leia)
Get the gun! Point it at the deck!

Leia turns toward the barge cannon, climbs on the platform, and swivels 
the gun around.

LUKE
Point it at the deck!

A laser blast hits Luke's mechanical hand and he bends over in pain, 
but manages to swing his lightsaber upward and take out the last of the 
guards. He looks at the wounded hand, which reveals the mechanism. He 
flexes the hand; it still works.

Near the rail of the upper deck, Artoo and Threepio steady themselves 
as Threepio gets ready to jump. Artoo beeps wildly.

THREEPIO
Artoo, where are we going? I couldn't possibly jump.

Artoo butts the golden droid over the edge and steps off himself, 
tumbling toward the sand.

Luke runs along the empty deck toward Leia and the barge gun, which she 
has brought around to point down at the deck.

LUKE
Come on!

Luke has hold on one of the rigging ropes from the mast. He gathers 
Leia in his other arm and kicks the trigger of the deck gun. The gun 
explodes into the deck as Luke and Leia swing out toward the skiff.

41   EXT SKIFF  

Han leans panting against the rail as Chewie helps Lando onto the deck. 
Luke and Leia land on the skiff with flair.

LUKE
Let's go! And don't forget the droids.

LANDO
We're on our way.

The Sail Barge is exploding in stages in the distance. Half of the huge 
craft is on fire.

42   EXT SAND DUNE

Threepio's legs stick straight up from the dune where he landed. Next 
to it, Artoo's periscope is the only thing above the sand. The skiff 
floats above them and two large electromagnets dangle down on a wire. 
With a loud CLANG, both droids are pulled 
from the sand.

43   EXT DUNE SEA

The little skiff skips around the burning Sail Barge, which continues 
its chain of explosions. As the skiff sails off across the desert, the 
barge settles to the sand and disappears in one final conflagration.

44   EXT DUNE SEA - LANDING AREA

A ferocious sandstorm blocks our view. Then, through the ROAR, we HEAR 
THE VOICES of our heroes. They emerge slowly from the veil of sand, 
pressing on against the wind. First come Artoo and Threepio, followed 
by Leia guiding Han, then Luke and Lando come into view, each 
supporting one side of the towering Chewbacca, who hobbles from his 
wound.

Soon, they can make out some large vague shapes in the blowing sand. It 
is the Millennium Falcon and, parked beside it, Luke's trusty X-wing 
and a two-seated Y-wing. They must shout to be heard.

HAN
I don't know. All I can see is a lot of blowing sand!

LEIA
That's all any of us can see.

HAN	 (blinking)
Then I guess I'm getting better.

As soon as the group huddles under the bulk of the Falcon, the wind 
dies down to something more describable as a severe weather condition. 
Threepio hits a switch, and the gang-plank lowers with a HUM.

HAN 	(turning to Luke)
I've got to hand it to you, kid, you were pretty good out there.

LUKE	 (shrugging it off)
I had a lot of help. Think nothing of it.

HAN
No, I'm thinking a lot about it. That carbon freeze was the closest 
thing to dead there is. And it wasn't just sleepin'. It was a big wide 
awake nothing!

Luke nods, as Chewie growls affectionately at the young Jedi warrior, 
mussing his hair like a proud uncle. And Leia warmly hugs him.

LUKE 	(moving to his ship)
I'll see you back at the fleet.

HAN
Why don't you leave that crate and come with us?

LUKE
I have a promise I have to keep first... to an old friend.

Luke and Artoo take off in their spacecraft.

HAN		
(looking dubiously at Lando, obviously remembering his friend's 
betrayal and subsequent aide)
Guess I owe you some thanks, too, Lando.

LANDO
Figured if I left you frozen like that you'd just give me bad luck the 
rest of my life, so I might as well get you unfrozen sooner or later.

LEIA
He means "You're welcome."

LANDO
Come on, let's get off this miserable dust ball.

44A  EXT SPACE ABOVE TATOOINE 

The desolate yellow planet fills the screen, Luke's X-wing appears and 
peels off to the left. A moment later, the FALCON appears as a dot and 
grows huge, to roar directly over the CAMERA.

45   INT X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke is at the controls, with Artoo attached behind him outside the 
canopy. Luke speaks into his comlink to the others, in the MILLENNIUM 
FALCON.

LUKE
I'll meet you back at the fleet.

LEIA	 (over comlink)
Hurry. The Alliance should be assembled by now.

LUKE
I will.

HAN	 (over comlink)
Hey, Luke, thanks. Thanks for comin' after me. Now I owe you one.

A message from Artoo appears on the small monitor screen in front of 
Luke. He smiles at the monitor and speaks to Artoo, as he pulls a black 
glove on to cover his wounded mechanical hand.

LUKE
That's right, Artoo. We're going to the Dagobah system. I have a 
promise to keep... to an old friend.

46   EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR AND ENDOR

A Super Star Destroyer and several ships of the Imperial Fleet rest in 
space above the half-completed Death Star and its green neighbor, 
Endor. Four squads of TIE fighters escort an Imperial shuttle toward 
the Death Star.

47   INT DEATH STAR - CORRIDOR TO DOCKING BAY

Lord Vader strides down the hallway, accompanied by a very nervous 
Death Star commander.

48   INT DOCKING BAY - DEATH STAR

Thousands of Imperial troops in tight formation fill the mammoth 
docking bay. Vader and the officer walk to the landing platform, where 
the shuttle is coming to rest.

The shuttle's ramp lowers and the Emperor's Royal Guards come out and 
create a lethal perimeter. The assembled troops move to rigid attention 
with a momentous SNAP.

Then, in the huge SILENCE which follows, the EMPEROR appears. He is a 
rather small, shriveled old man. His bent frame slowly makes its way 
down the ramp with the aid of a gnarled cane. He wears a hooded cloak 
similar to the one Ben wears, except that it is black. The Emperor's 
face is shrouded and difficult to see, except for his piercing yellow 
eyes. Commander Jerjerrod and Darth Vader kneel to him. The Supreme 
Ruler of the galaxy beckons to the Dark Lord.

EMPEROR	 (to Vader)
Rise, my friend.

Vader rises and falls in next to the Emperor as he slowly makes his way 
along the rows of troops. Jerjerrod and the other commanders stay 
kneeling until the Supreme Ruler and Vader, followed by several 
Imperial dignitaries, pass by; only then do they join in the 
procession.

VADER
The Death Star will be completed on schedule.

EMPEROR
You have done well, Lord Vader. And now I sense you wish to continue 
your search for young Skywalker.

VADER
Yes, my Master.

EMPEROR
Patience, my friend. In time he will seek you out. And when he does, 
you must bring him
before me. He has grown strong. Only together can we turn him to the 
dark side of the
Force.

VADER
As you wish.

EMPEROR
Everything is proceeding as I have foreseen.

He laughs to himself as they pass along the vast line of Imperial 
troops.

49   EXT YODA'S HOUSE - DAGOBAH

Once again, Artoo finds himself waiting around in the damp environs of 
the swamp planet, and he's none too happy about it. He beeps 
disconsolately to himself and turns to look at Yoda's cottage. Warm 
yellow light escapes the oddly shaped windows to fight the gloom.

50   INT YODA'S HOUSE

The tip of a walking stick taps hesitantly across the earthen floor of 
the cottage. Our view travels up the stick to the small green hand that 
clutches it, and then to the familiar face of YODA, THE JEDI MASTER. 
His manner is frail, and his voice, though cheerful, seems weaker.

YODA
Hmm. That face you make. Look I so old to young eyes?

Luke is sitting in a corner of the cramped space and, indeed, his look 
has been woeful. Caught, he tries to hide it.

LUKE
No... of course not.

YODA	 (tickled, chuckles)
I do, yes, I do!  Sick have I become. Old and weak. 
(Points a crooked finger)
When nine hundred years old you reach, look as good you will not. Hmm?

Yoda chuckles at this, coughs, and hobbles over toward his bed.

YODA
Soon will I rest. Yes, forever sleep. Earned it, I have.

Yoda sits himself on his bed, with great effort.

LUKE
Master Yoda, you can't die.

YODA
Strong am I with the Force... but not that strong! Twilight is upon me 
and soon night must fall. That is the way of things... the way of the 
Force.

LUKE
But I need your help. I've come back to complete the training.

YODA
No more training do you require. Already know you that which you need.

Yoda sighs, and lies back on his bed.

LUKE
Then I am a Jedi?

YODA	 (shakes his head)
Ohhh. Not yet. One thing remains: Vader. You must confront Vader. Then, 
only then, a Jedi will you be. And confront him you will.

Luke is in agony. He is silent for a long moment, screwing up his 
courage. Finally he is able to ask.

LUKE
Master Yoda... is Darth Vader my father?

Yoda's eyes are full of weariness and compassion. An odd, sad smile 
creases his face. He turns painfully on his side, away from Luke.

YODA
Mmm... rest I need. Yes... rest.

Luke watches him, each moment an eternity.

LUKE
Yoda, I must know.

YODA
Your father he is.

Luke reacts as if cut.

YODA
Told you, did he?

LUKE
Yes.

A new look of concern crosses Yoda's face.  He closes his eyes.

YODA
Unexpected this is, and unfortunate...

LUKE
Unfortunate that I know the truth?

Yoda opens his eyes again and studies the youth.

YODA		 (gathering all his strength)
No. Unfortunate that you rushed to face him... that incomplete was your 
training. Not
ready for the burden were you.

LUKE
Well, I'm sorry.

YODA
Remember, a Jedi's strength flows from the Force.  But beware.  Anger, 
fear, aggression.
The dark side are they.  Once you start down the dark path, forever 
will it dominate your
destiny.

He beckons the young Jedi closer to him.

YODA
Luke...Luke...Do not...Do not underestimate the powers of the Emperor, 
or suffer your father's fate, you will. Luke, when gone am I
(cough),
the last of the Jedi will you be. Luke, the Force runs strong in your 
family. Pass on what you have learned, Luke... 
(with great effort)
There is...another...Sky...Sky...walker.

He catches his breath. A shiver runs through the ancient green 
creature, and he dies. Luke stares at his dead master as he disappears 
in front of his eyes.

51   EXT DAGOBAH SWAMP - X-WING 

Luke wanders back to where his ship is sitting. Artoo beeps a greeting, 
but is ignored by his depressed master. Luke kneels down, begins to 
help Artoo with the ship, then stops and shakes his head dejectedly.

LUKE
I can't do it, Artoo. I can't go on alone.

BEN	 (OS)
Yoda will always be with you.

Luke looks up to see the shimmering image of BEN KENOBI.

LUKE
Obi-Wan! Why didn't you tell me?

The ghost of Ben Kenobi approaches him through the swamp.

LUKE
You told me Vader betrayed and murdered my father.

BEN
You father was seduced by the dark side of the Force. He ceased to be 
Anakin Skywalker
and became Darth Vader. When that happened, the good man who was your 
father was destroyed. So what I have told you was true... from a 
certain point of view.

LUKE	 (turning away, derisive)
A certain point of view!

BEN
Luke, you're going to find that many of the truths we cling to depend 
greatly on our own
point of view.

Luke is unresponsive. Ben studies him in silence for a moment.

BEN
I don't blame you for being angry. If I was wrong in what I did, it 
certainly wouldn't have been for the first time. You see, what happened 
to your father was my fault.

Ben pauses sadly.

BEN
Anakin was a good friend.

Luke turns with interest at this. As Ben speaks, Luke settles on a 
stump, mesmerized. Artoo comes over to offer his comforting presence.

BEN
When I first knew him, your father was already a great pilot. But I was 
amazed how strongly the Force was with him. I took it upon myself to 
train him as a Jedi. I thought that I could instruct him just as well 
as Yoda. I was wrong. My pride has had terrible consequences for the 
galaxy.

Luke is entranced.

LUKE
There's still good in him.

BEN
I also thought he could be turned back to the good side. It couldn't be 
done. He is more machine now than man. Twisted and evil.

LUKE
I can't do it, Ben.

BEN
You cannot escape your destiny.

LUKE
I tried to stop him once. I couldn't do it.

BEN
Vader humbled you when first you met him, Luke... but that experience 
was part of your training. It taught you, among other things, the value 
of patience. Had you not been so impatient to defeat Vader then, you 
could have finished your training here with Yoda. You would have been 
prepared.

LUKE
But I had to help my friends.

BEN	 (grinning at Luke's indignation)
And did you help them? It was they who had to save you. You achieved 
little by rushing back prematurely, I fear.

LUKE	 (with sadness)
I found out Darth Vader was my father.

BEN
To be a Jedi, Luke, you must confront and then go beyond the dark side 
- the side your father couldn't get past. Impatience is the easiest 
door - for you, like your father. Only, your father was seduced by what 
he found on the other side of the door, and you have held firm. You're 
no longer so reckless now, Luke. You are strong and patient. And now, 
you must face Darth Vader again!

LUKE
I can't kill my own father.

BEN
Then the Emperor has already won. You were our only hope.

LUKE
Yoda spoke of another.

BEN
The other he spoke of is your twin sister.

LUKE
But I have no sister.

BEN
Hmm. To protect you both from the Emperor, you were hidden from your 
father when you were born. The Emperor knew, as I did, if Anakin were 
to have any offspring, they would be a threat to him. That is the 
reason why your sister remains safely anonymous.

LUKE
Leia! Leia's my sister.

BEN
Your insight serves you well. Bury your feelings deep down, Luke. They 
do you credit.
But they could be made to serve the Emperor.

Luke looks into the distance, trying to comprehend all this.

BEN	 (continuing his narrative)
When your father left, he didn't know your mother was pregnant. Your 
mother and I knew he would find out eventually, but we wanted to keep 
you both as safe as possible, for as long as possible.  So I took you 
to live with my brother Owen on Tatooine... and your mother took Leia 
to live as the daughter of Senator Organa, on Alderaan.

Luke turns, and settles near Ben to hear the tale.

BEN	 (attempting to give solace with his words)
The Organa household was high-born and politically quite powerful in 
that system. Leia became a princess by virtue of lineage... no one knew 
she'd been adopted, of course. But it was a title without real power, 
since Alderaan had long been a democracy.  Even so, the family 
continued to be politically powerful, and Leia, following in her foster 
father's path, became a senator as well.  That's not all she became, of 
course... she became the leader of her cell in the Alliance against the 
corrupt Empire. And because she had diplomatic immunity, she was a 
vital link for getting information to the Rebel cause.  That's what she 
was doing when her path crossed yours... for her foster parents had 
always told her to contact me on Tatooine, if her troubles became 
desperate.

Luke is overwhelmed by the truth, and is suddenly protective of his 
sister.

LUKE
But you can't let her get involved now, Ben. Vader will destroy her.

BEN
She hasn't been trained in the ways of the Jedi the way you have, 
Luke... but the Force is strong with her, as it is with all of your 
family. There is no avoiding the battle. You must face and destroy 
Vader!

52   EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET

The vast Rebel Fleet stretches as far as the eye can see. Overhead a 
dozen small Corellian battleships fly in formation. Fighters and 
battlecruisers surround the largest of the Rebel Star Cruisers, the 
HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE.

53   INT HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE - MAIN BRIEFING ROOM

Hundreds of Rebel commanders of all races and forms are assembled in 
the WAR ROOM. WEDGE is among them. In the center of the room is a 
holographic model depicting the half-completed Imperial Death Star, the 
nearby Moon of Endor, and the protecting deflector shield.

MON MOTHMA, the leader of the Alliance, enters the room. She is a stern 
but beautiful woman in her fifties. Conferring with her are several 
military leaders, including GENERAL MADINE and ADMIRAL ACKBAR (a 
salmon-colored Mon Calamari). Lando moves through the crowd until he 
finds Han and Chewie, standing next to Leia and the two droids.

Han peers at Lando's new insignia on his chest, and is amused.

HAN
Well, look at you, a general, huh?

 LANDO
 Oh, well, someone must have told them about my little maneuver at the 
battle of Taanab.

HAN	 (sarcastic)
Well, don't look at me, pal. I just said you were a fair pilot. I 
didn't know they were
lookin' for somebody to lead this crazy attack.

LANDO	 (smiling)
I'm surprised they didn't ask you to do it.

HAN
Well, who says they didn't.  But I ain't crazy. You're the respectable 
one, remember?

Mon Mothma signals for attention, and the room falls silent.

MON MOTHMA
The Emperor has made a critical error and the time for our attack has 
come.

This causes a stir. Mon Mothma turns to a holographic model of the 
Death Star, the Endor moon and the protecting deflector shield in the 
center of the room.

MON MOTHMA
The data brought to us by the Bothan spies pinpoints the exact location 
of the Emperor's new battle station. We also know that the weapon 
systems of this Death Star are not yet operational. With the Imperial 
Fleet spread throughout the galaxy in a vain effort to engage us, it is 
relatively unprotected. But most important of all, we've learned that 
the Emperor himself is personally overseeing the final stages of the 
construction of this Death Star.

A volley of spirited chatter erupts from the crowd. Han turns to Leia 
as Chewie barks his amazement.

MON MOTHMA	 (cont)
Many Bothans died to bring us this information. Admiral Ackbar, please.

Admiral Ackbar steps forward and points to the Death Star's force field 
and the Moon of Endor.

ACKBAR
You can see here the Death Star orbiting the forest Moon of Endor. 
Although the weapon
systems on this Death Star are not yet operational, the Death Star does 
have a strong defense mechanism. It is protected by an energy shield, 
which is generated from the nearby forest Moon of Endor. The shield 
must be deactivated if any attack is to be attempted. Once the shield 
is down, our cruisers will create a perimeter, while the fighters fly 
into the superstructure and attempt to knock out the main reactor.

There's a concerned murmur.

ACKBAR	 (cont)
General Calrissian has volunteered to lead the fighter attack

Han turns to Lando with a look of respect.

HAN
Good luck.

Lando nods his thanks.

HAN
You're gonna need it.

ACKBAR
General Madine.

Madine moves center stage.

GENERAL MADINE
We have stolen a small Imperial shuttle. Disguised as a cargo ship, and 
using a secret
Imperial code, a strike team will land on the moon and deactivate the 
shield generator.

The assembly begins to mumble among themselves.

THREEPIO
Sounds dangerous.

LEIA	 (to Han)
I wonder who they found to pull that off.

GENERAL MADINE
General Solo, is your strike team assembled?

Leia, startled, looks up at Han, surprise changing to admiration.

HAN
Uh, my team's ready. I don't have a command crew for the shuttle.

Chewbacca raises his hairy paw and volunteers.  Han looks up at him.

HAN
Well, it's gonna be rough, pal. I didn't want to speak for you.

Chewie waves that off with a huge GROWL.

HAN	 (smiles)
That's one.

LEIA
Uh, General... count me in.

VOICE	 (OS)
I'm with you, too!

They turn in that direction and peer into the crowd as there are more 
cheers. The commanders part, and there at the back stands Luke. Han and 
Leia are surprised and delighted.

Leia moves to Luke and embraces him warmly. She senses a change in him 
and looks into his eyes questioningly.

LEIA
 What is it?

LUKE	 (hesitant)
Ask me again sometime.

Han, Chewie, and Lando crowd around Luke as the assembly breaks up.

HAN
Luke.

LUKE
Hi, Han... Chewie.

Artoo beeps a singsong observation to a worried Threepio.

 THREEPIO
"Exciting" is hardly the word I would use.

54   INT HEADQUARTERS FRIGATE - MAIN DOCKING BAY

The Millennium Falcon rests beyond the stolen IMPERIAL SHUTTLE, which 
looks anomalous among all the Rebel ships in the vast docking bay. 
Chewie barks a final farewell to Lando and leads Artoo and Threepio up 
the shuttle, crowded now with the Rebel strike team loading weapons and 
supplies. Lando turns to face Han. Luke and Leia have said their good-
byes and start up the ramp.

HAN
Look. I want you to take her. I mean it. Take her. You need all the 
help you can get. She's
the fastest ship in the fleet.

LANDO
All right, old buddy. You know, I know what she means to you. I'll take 
good care of her.
She-she won't get a scratch. All right?

HAN	 (looks at him warmly)
Right. I got your promise now. Not a scratch.

LANDO
Look, would you get going, you pirate.

Han and Lando pause, then exchange salutes.

LANDO
Good luck.

HAN
You, too.

Han goes up the ramp. Lando watches him go and then slowly turns away.

55   INT IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT

Luke is working on a back control panel as Han comes in and takes the 
pilot's seat. Chewie, in the seat next to him, is trying to figure out 
all the Imperial controls.

HAN
You got her warmed?

LUKE
Yeah, she's comin' up.

Chewie growls a complaint.

HAN
No. I don't think the Empire had Wookiees in mind when they designed 
her, Chewie.

Leia comes in from the hold and takes her seat near Luke.

Chewie barks and hits some switches. Han's glance has stuck on 
something out the window: the Millennium Falcon. Leia nudges him 
gently.

LEIA
Hey, are you awake?

HAN
Yeah, I just got a funny feeling. Like I'm not gonna see her again.

Chewie, hearing this, stops his activity and looks longingly out at the 
Falcon, too. Leia puts a hand on Han's shoulder.

LEIA	 (softly)
Come on, General, let's move.

Han snaps back to life.

HAN
Right. Chewie, let's see what this piece of junk can do. Ready, 
everybody?

LUKE
All set.

THREEPIO
Here we go again.

HAN
All right, hang on.

56   EXT SPACE - THE REBEL FLEET

The stolen Imperial shuttle leaves the main docking bay of the 
Headquarters Frigate, lowers its wings into flight position, and zooms 
off into space.

57   INT EMPEROR'S THRONE ROOM

The converted control room is dimly lit, except for a pool of light at 
the far end. There the Emperor sits in an elaborate control chair 
before a large window which looks out across the half-completed Death 
Star to the giant green moon of Endor.

Darth Vader, standing with other members of the Imperial council, 
cautiously approaches his master. The ruler's back is to Vader. After 
several tense moments, the Emperor's chair rotates around to face him.

VADER
What is thy bidding, my Master?

EMPEROR
Send the fleet to the far side of Endor. There it will stay until 
called for.

VADER
What of the reports of the Rebel fleet massing near Sullust?

EMPEROR
It is of no concern. Soon the Rebellion will be crushed and young 
Skywalker will be one of us! Your work here is finished, my friend. Go 
out to the command ship and await my orders.

VADER
Yes, my Master.

Vader bows, then turns and exits the throne room as the Emperor walks 
toward the waiting council members.

58   EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR - MOON

There is a great deal of Imperial traffic in the area as construction 
proceeds on the Death Star. Transports, TIE fighters, and a few Star 
Destroyers move about. Now the huge Super Star Destroyer announces 
itself with a low roar and soon fills the frame.

59   INT STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT

Han looks back at Luke and Leia as Chewie flips several switches. 
Through the viewscreen, the Death Star and the huge Super Star 
Destroyer can be seen.

HAN
If they don't go for this, we're gonna have to get outta here pretty 
quick, Chewie.

Chewie growls his agreement.

CONTROLLER	 (over radio)
We have you on our screen now. Please identify.

HAN
Shuttle Tydirium requesting deactivation of the deflector shield.

CONTROLLER	 (over radio)
Shuttle Tydirium, transmit the clearance code for shield passage.

HAN
Transmission commencing.

Leia and Chewbacca listen tensely as the sound of a high speed 
transmission begins.

LEIA
Now we find out if that code is worth the price we paid.

HAN
It'll work. It'll work.

Chewie whines nervously. Luke stares at the Huge Super Star Destroyer 
that looms ever larger before them.

LUKE
Vader's on that ship.

HAN
Now don't get jittery, Luke. There are a lot of command ships. Keep 
your distance though, Chewie, but don't look like you're trying to keep 
your distance.

Chewie barks a question.

HAN
I don't know.  Fly casual.

LUKE
I'm endangering the mission. I shouldn't have come.

HAN
It's your imagination, kid. Come on. Let's keep a little optimism here.

Chewie barks his worries as the Super Star Destroyer grows larger out 
the window.

60   INT VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Lord Vader stands, back to us, staring out a window at the Death Star. 
Now, some vibration felt only by him causes him to turn. After a moment 
of stillness, he walks down the row of controllers to where ADMIRAL 
PIETT is leaning over the tracking screen of the controller we've seen 
earlier. Piett straightens at Vader's approach.

VADER
Where is that shuttle going?

PIETT	 (into comlink)
Shuttle Tydirium, what is your cargo and destination?

PILOT VOICE    (HAN)   (filtered)
Parts and technical crew for the forest moon.

The Bridge Commander looks to Vader for a reaction.

VADER
Do they have a code clearance?

PIETT
It's an older code, sir, but it checks out. I was about to clear them.

Vader looks upward, as he senses Luke's presence.

PIETT
Shall I hold them?

VADER
No. Leave them to me. I will deal with them myself.

PIETT	 (surprised)
As you wish, my lord.
(to controller)
Carry on.

Piett nods at controller, who switches on his comlink.

61   INT STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - COCKPIT

The group waits tensely.

HAN
They're not goin' for it, Chewie.

CONTROLLER	 (filtered)
Shuttle Tydirium, deactivation of the shield will commence immediately. 
Follow your
present course.

Everyone breaths a sigh of relief. Everyone but Luke, who looks 
worried. Chewie barks.

HAN
Okay! I told you it was gonna work. No problem.

62   EXT SPACE - STOLEN IMPERIAL SHUTTLE - ENDOR

The stolen Imperial shuttle moves off toward the green Sanctuary Moon.

63   EXT FOREST LANDING SITE - ENDOR

The stolen Imperial shuttle sits in a clearing of the moon's dark, 
primeval forest, dwarfed by the ancient towering trees.

On an adjacent hill, the helmeted Rebel contingent makes its way up a 
steep trail. Leia and Han are slightly ahead of Chewie and Luke. The 
troops of the strike-team squad follow, with Artoo and Threepio 
bringing up the rear. Artoo beeps.

Up ahead, Chewie and Leia reach a crest in the hill and drop suddenly 
to the ground, signaling the rest of the group to stop. Han and Luke 
crawl up to take a look.

THREEPIO
Oh, I told you it was dangerous here.

THEIR POV. Not far below them, two IMPERIAL SCOUTS are wandering 
through bushes in the valley below. Their two ROCKET BIKES are parked 
nearby.

LEIA
Shall we try and go around?

HAN
It'll take time. This whole party'll be for nothing if they see us.

Leia motions for the squad to stay put, then she, Han, Luke and Chewie 
start quietly down.

64   EXT FOREST CLEARING - CAMPSITE

The four friends make their way to the edge of the clearing not far 
from the two Imperial scouts.

HAN
Chewie and I will take care of this. You stay here.

LUKE
Quietly, there might be more of them out there.

HAN	 (grins)
Hey... it's me.

Han and Chewie turn and start through the bushes toward the scouts. 
Luke and Leia exchange smiles.

Han sneaks up behind one of the scouts, steps on a twig and the scout 
whirls, knocking Han into a tree. The scout shouts for his companion.

SCOUT #1
Go for help! Go!

The second scout jumps on his speeder bike and takes off, but Chewie 
gets off a shot on his crossbow laser weapon, causing the scout to 
crash into a tree. Han and Scout #1 are in a rousing fistfight.

LUKE	 (sarcastic)
Great. Come on.

Luke starts for the scuffle, followed by Leia with her laser pistol 
drawn. As they run through the bushes, Leia stops and points to where 
two more scouts are sitting on their speeder bikes, with an unoccupied 
bike parked nearby.

LEIA
Over there! Two more of them!

LUKE
I see them. Wait, Leia!

But Leia doesn't hear him and races for the remaining speeder bike. She 
starts it up and takes off as Luke jumps on the bike behind her.

LUKE	 (pointing to the controls)
Quick! Jam their comlink. Center switch!

Luke and Leia speed into the dense foliage in hot pursuit, barely 
avoiding two huge trees.

HAN
Hey, wait! Ahhh!

He flips the remaining scout to the ground.

65   EXT FOREST - THE BIKE CHASE

The two fleeing Imperial scouts have a good lead as Luke and Leia 
pursue through the giant trees at 200 miles an hour, the fire from 
their bike's laser cannon hitting harmlessly near the moving targets.

LUKE
Move closer!

Leia guns it, closing the gap, as the two scouts recklessly veer 
through a narrow gap in the trees. One of the bikes SCRAPES a tree, 
slowing the scout.

LUKE
Get alongside that one!

Leia pulls her speeder bike up so close to the scout's bike that their 
steering vanes SCRAPE noisily. Luke leaps from his bike to the back of 
the scout's, grabs the Imperial warrior around the neck, and flips him 
off the bike, into a thick tree trunk. Luke gains control of the bike 
and follows Leia, who has pulled ahead. They tear off after the 
remaining scout.

LUKE
Get him!

The speeding chase passes TWO MORE IMPERIAL SCOUTS. These two swing 
into pursuit, chasing Luke and Leia, firing away with their laser 
cannon. The two Rebels look behind them just as Luke's bike takes a 
glancing hit.

LUKE	 (indicating the one ahead)
Keep on that one! I'll take these two!

With Leia shooting ahead, Luke suddenly slams his steering vanes into 
the braking mode. Luke's bike is a blur to the two pursuing scouts as 
they zip by him on either side. Luke slams his bike into forward and 
starts firing away, having switched places with his pursuers in a 
manner of seconds. Luke's aim is good and one scout's bike is blasted 
out of control. It explodes against a tree trunk.

The scout's cohort takes one glance back at the flash and shifts into 
turbo drive, going even faster. Luke keeps on his tail.

FAR AHEAD, Leia and the first scout are doing a highspeed slalom 
through the death-dealing trunks. Now Leia aims her bike skyward and 
rises out of sight.

The scout turns in confusion, unable to see his pursuer. Suddenly, Leia 
dives down upon him from above, cannon blasting. The scout's bike takes 
a glancing hit.

Leia moves in alongside him. The scout eyes her beside him, reaches 
down, and pulls out a handgun. Before Leia can react, the scout has 
blasted her bike, sending it out of control. Leia dives off as her bike 
explodes against a tree. The happy scout looks back at the explosion. 
But when he turns forward again, he is on a collision course with a 
giant fallen tree. He hits his brakes to no avail and disappears in a 
conflagration.

ANOTHER PART OF THE FOREST: Luke and the last remaining scout continue 
their weaving chase through the trees. Now Luke moves up close. The 
scout responds by slamming his bike into Luke's. A fallen tree forms a 
bridge across their path. The scout zips under. Luke goes over the top 
and crashes his bike down on the scout's. Both riders look ahead - a 
wide trunk looms directly in Luke's path, but the scout's bike beside 
him makes it almost impossible for him to avoid it. Luke banks with all 
his might, leaning almost horizontal over the scout's bike, and is able 
to make it by, just clipping the tree. When he straightens, he and the 
scout discover that their two bikes have locked front vanes and are 
moving as one.

Another big tree looms in Luke's path. He reacts instinctively and 
dives off his bike. The two bikes come apart a second before Luke's 
explodes against a tree. The scout sweeps out and circles back to find 
Luke.

Luke rises from the undergrowth as the scout bears down on him and 
opens fire with his laser cannon. Luke ignites his laser sword and 
begins deflecting the bolts. The scout's bike keeps coming and it 
appears that in a second it will cut Luke in half. At the last instant, 
Luke steps aside and chops off the bike's control vanes with one mighty 
slash. The scout's bike begins to shudder, then, pitching and rolling, 
it rises up to slam directly into a tree in a giant ball of fire.

66   EXT SCOUT CAMPSITE - FOREST

Han, Chewie, and the droids, along with the rest of the squad, wait 
anxiously in the clearing. Artoo's radar screen sticks out of his domed 
head and revolves, scanning the forest. He beeps.

THREEPIO
Oh, General Solo, somebody's coming. Oh!

Han, Chewie, and the rest of the squad raise their weapons.

Luke steps out of the foliage to find the weapons trained on him. He's 
too tired to care. He plops himself down on a boulder and looks around.

HAN
Luke! Where's Leia?

LUKE	 (concerned)
What? She didn't come back?

HAN
I thought she was with you.

LUKE
We got separated.

Luke and Han exchange a silent, grim look. Luke gets up wearily.

LUKE
Hey, we better go look for her.

Han nods, and signals to a Rebel officer.

HAN
Take the squad ahead.  We'll meet at the shield generator at 0300.

LUKE
Come on, Artoo.  We'll need your scanners.

Luke, Chewie, Han, and the droids move off in one direction as the 
squad proceeds in another.

THREEPIO
Don't worry, Master Luke.  We know what to do.

They move off into the woods.

THREEPIO	 (to Artoo)
And you said it was pretty here. Ugh!

67   EXT FOREST CLEARING - LEIA'S CRASH SITE

A strange little furry face with huge black eyes comes slowly into 
view. The creature is an EWOK, by the name of WICKET. He seems somewhat 
puzzled, and prods Leia with a spear. The princess groans; this 
frightens the stubby ball of fuzz and he prods her again. Leia sits up 
and stares at the three-foot-high Ewok. She tries to figure out where 
she is and what has happened. Her clothes are torn; she's bruised and 
disheveled.

The Ewok jumps up and grabs a four-foot-long spear, which he holds in a 
defensive position. Leia watches him as he circles warily and begins 
poking her with the sharp point of the spear.

LEIA
Cut it out!

She stands up, and the Ewok quickly backs away.

LEIA
I'm not gonna hurt you.

Leia looks around at the dense forest, and at the charred remains of 
her speeder bike, then sits down, with a sigh, on a fallen log.

LEIA
Well, looks like I'm stuck here. Trouble is, I don't know where here 
is.

She puts her head in her hands to rub away some of the soreness from 
her fall. She looks over at the watchful little Ewok and pats the log 
beside her.

LEIA
Well, maybe you can help me. Come on, sit down.

Wicket holds his spear up warily and growls at her like a puppy. Leia 
pats the log again.

LEIA
I promise I won't hurt you. Now come here.

More growls and squeaks from the little bear creature.

LEIA
All right. You want something to eat?

She takes a scrap of food out of her pocket and offers it to him. 
Wicket takes a step backward, then cocks his head and moves cautiously 
toward Leia, chattering in his squeaky Ewok language.

LEIA
That's right. Come on. Hmmm?

Sniffing the food curiously, the Ewok comes toward Leia and sits on the 
log beside her. She takes off her helmet, and the little creature jumps 
back, startled again. He runs along the log, pointing his spear at her 
and chattering a blue streak. Leia holds out the helmet to him.

LEIA
Look, it's a hat. It's not gonna hurt you. Look. You're a jittery 
little thing, aren't you?

Reassured, Wicket lowers his spear and climbs back on the log, coming 
to investigate the helmet. Suddenly his ears perk up and he begins to 
sniff the air. He looks around warily, whispering some Ewokese warning 
to Leia.

LEIA
What is it?

Suddenly a laser bolt comes out of the foliage and explodes on the log 
next to Leia. Leia and Wicket both roll backwards off the log, hiding 
behind it. Leia holds her own laser gun ready, while Wicket disappears 
underneath the log. Another shot, and still no sight of anyone in the 
forest. Then Leia senses something and turns to find a large IMPERIAL 
SCOUT standing over her with his weapon pointed at her head. He reaches 
out his hand for her weapon.

SCOUT #l
Freeze!  Come on, get up!

She hands the weapon over, as a second scout emerges from the foliage 
in front of the log.

SCOUT #1
Go get your ride and take her back to base.

SCOUT #2
Yes, sir.

The second scout starts toward his bike, as Wicket, crouched under the 
log, extends his spear and hits the first scout on the leg. The scout 
jumps and lets out an exclamation, and looks down at Wicket, puzzled. 
Leia grabs a branch and knocks him out. She dives for his laser pistol, 
and the second scout, now on his bike, takes off. Leia fires away and 
hits the escaping bike, causing it to crash into the first scout's 
bike, which flies end over end and explodes. The forest is quiet once 
more. Wicket pokes his fuzzy head up from behind the log and regards 
Leia with√änew respect. He mumbles his awe. Leia hurries over, looking 
around all the time, and motions the chubby little creature into the 
dense foliage.

LEIA
Come on, let's get outta here.

As they move into the foliage, Wicket takes the lead. He shrieks and 
tugs at Leia to follow him.

68   INT DEATH STAR - CORRIDOR TO EMPEROR'S TOWER

Darth Vader walks down the corridor to the Emperor's Tower and private 
elevator. The Emperor's private guard steps in Vader's path.

GUARD
Halt! The Emperor does not wish to be disturbed at the moment.

VADER        
(raising his gloved hand to the two guards and choking them with the 
Force)
The Emperor will see me, now!

GUARD
(repeating Vader's command)
The Emperor will see you, now.

69   INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Two red Imperial Guards stand watch at the elevator as the door opens 
to reveal Vader. Vader enters the eerie, foreboding throne room. It 
appears to be empty. His footsteps echo as he approaches the throne. He 
waits, absolutely still. The Emperor sits with his back to the Dark 
Lord.

EMPEROR
I told you to remain on the command ship.

VADER
A small Rebel force has penetrated the shield and landed on Endor.

EMPEROR	 (no surprise)
Yes, I know.

VADER	 (after a beat)
My son is with them.

EMPEROR	 (very cool)
Are you sure?

VADER
I have felt him, my Master.

EMPEROR
Strange, that I have not. I wonder if your feelings on this matter are 
clear, Lord
Vader.

Vader knows what is being asked.

VADER
They are clear, my Master.

EMPEROR
Then you must go to the Sanctuary Moon and wait for them.

VADER	 (skeptical)
He will come to me?

EMPEROR
I have foreseen it. His compassion for you will be his undoing. He will 
come to you and
then you will bring him before me.

VADER	 (bows)
As you wish.

The Dark Lord strides out of the throne room.

70   EXT FOREST CLEARING - LEIA'S CRASH SITE

Han, Luke, Chewie, and the two droids are spread out as they move 
through the heavy foliage near the clearing where we last saw Leia. 
Luke finds Leia's helmet, picks it up with an expression of concern.

HAN	 (OS)
Luke! Luke!

Luke runs with the helmet to where Han has found the charred wreckage 
of a speeder bike in the grass.

THREEPIO
Oh, Master Luke.

LUKE
There's two more wrecked speeders back there. And I found this.

He tosses the helmet to Han.

THREEPIO
I'm afraid that Artoo's sensors can find no trace of Princess Leia.

HAN	 (gravely)
I hope she's alright.

Chewbacca growls, sniffing the air, then, with a bark, pushes off 
through the foliage.

                              HAN
What, Chewie? What? Chewie!

The others rush to keep up with the giant Wookiee. As he scoots along, 
Artoo whistles nervously.

71   EXT FOREST - DENSE FOLIAGE

The group has reached a break in the undergrowth. Chewie walks up to a 
tall stake planted in the ground. There is a dead animal hanging from 
it.

HAN
Hey, I don't get it.

The rest of the group joins the Wookiee around the stake.

HAN	 (cont)
Nah, it's just a dead animal, Chewie.

Chewie can't resist. He reaches toward the meat.

LUKE
Chewie, wa-wait!  Don't!

Too late. The Wookiee has already pulled the animal from the stake. 
SPROOING! The group finds itself hanging upside down in an Ewok net, 
suspended high above the clearing. Artoo lets out a wild series of 
beeps and whistles, and Chewie howls his regret. Their bodies are a 
jumble in the net. Han removes a Wookiee paw from his mouth.

HAN
Nice work. Great, Chewie! Great! Always thinking with your stomach.

LUKE
Will you take it easy? Let's just figure out a way to get out of this 
thing. 
(trying to free an arm) 
Han, can you reach my lightsaber?

HAN
Yeah, sure.

Artoo is at the bottommost point in the net. He extends his cutting 
appendage and begins slicing at the net. Han is trying to squeeze an 
arm past Threepio to get at Luke's lightsaber. The net continues to 
spin.

THREEPIO
Artoo, I'm not sure that's such a good idea. It's a very long dro-o-
op!!

Artoo has cut through and the entire group tumbles out of the net, 
crashing to the ground. As they regain their senses and sit up, they 
realize they are surrounded by dozens of Ewoks, each brandishing a long 
spear.

HAN
Wha--?  Hey!  Point that thing someplace else.

Han pushes the spear wielded by TEEBO out of his face and a second Ewok 
warrior comes up to argue with Teebo. The spear returns to Han's face. 
He grabs it angrily and starts to go for his laser pistol.

HAN
Hey!

LUKE
Han, don't. It'll be all right.

The Ewoks swarm through them and confiscate their weapons. Luke lets 
them take his lightsaber. Chewie growls at the furry critters.

LUKE
Chewie, give 'em your crossbow.

Artoo and Threepio are just untangling themselves. Threepio gets free 
of the net and sits up, rattled.

THREEPIO
Oh, my head. Oh, my goodness!

When the Ewoks see Threepio, they let out a gasp and chatter among 
themselves. Threepio speaks to them in their native tongue. The Ewok 
nearest him drops his spear and prostrates himself before the droid. In 
a moment, all the Ewoks have followed suit. Chewie lets out a puzzled 
bark. Han and Luke regard the bowed creatures in wonder. The Ewoks 
begin to chant at Threepio.

LUKE
Do you understand anything they're saying?

THREEPIO
Oh, yes, Master Luke!  Remember that I am fluent in over six million 
forms of
communication.

HAN
What are you telling them?

THREEPIO
Hello, I think... I could be mistaken. They're using a very primitive 
dialect.  But
I do believe they think I am some sort of god.

Chewbacca and Artoo think that's very funny. Han and Luke exchange 
"what next?" looks.

HAN
Well, why don't you use your divine influence and get us out of this?

THREEPIO
I beg your pardon, General Solo, but that just wouldn't be proper.

HAN
Proper?!

THREEPIO
It's against my programming to impersonate a deity.

Han moves toward Threepio threateningly.

HAN
Why, you--

Several Ewoks' spears are thrust in Han's face at the affront to their 
god. The Ewoks move in to protect their god and Han is surrounded by a 
menacing circle of spears, all aimed at him. He holds up his hands 
placatingly.

HAN
My mistake. He's an old friend of mine.

72   EXT FOREST - SERIES OF SHOTS

A procession of Ewoks winds through the ever-darkening forest. Their 
prisoners - Han, Luke, Chewie, and Artoo - are tied to long poles and 
wrapped in vines, cocoonlike.

Each pole is carried on the shoulders of several Ewoks. Behind the 
captives, Threepio is carried on a litter, like a king, by the 
remaining creatures.

73   EXT FOREST WALKWAY - MOON FOREST

The procession moves along a shaky, narrow, wooden walkway, high in the 
giant trees. It stops at the end of the walkway, which drops off into 
nothingness. On the other side of the abyss is a village of mud huts 
and rickety walkways, attached to the giant trees. The lead Ewok takes 
hold of a long vine and swings across to the village square; the other 
Ewoks follow suit.

74   EXT EWOK VILLAGE SQUARE

The procession winds its way into the village square. Mother Ewoks 
gather their babies up and scurry into their huts at the sight of the 
newcomers. The group stops before the largest hut.

Han, Luke, Chewie, and Artoo are still bound to their poles. Han is 
placed on a spit above what looks like a barbecue pit and the others 
are leaned against a tree nearby. Threepio's litter/throne is gently 
placed near the pit. He watches with rapt fascination. Han, Luke, and 
Chewie are less than fascinated.

HAN
I have a really bad feeling about this.

Chewie growls his concern.

Suddenly all activity stops as LOGRAY, the tribal Medicine Man, comes 
out of the big hut. He examines the captives carefully, goes to join 
Threepio, whose throne has been placed on an elevated platform. A 
larger, gray-haired Ewok, CHIEF CHIRPA, is examining Luke's lightsaber 
with great curiosity.

Logray speaks to Threepio and the assemblage of fuzzy Ewoks, pointing 
to the prisoners tied to the stakes. The Ewoks begin filling the pit 
under Han with firewood.

HAN
What did he say?

THREEPIO
I'm rather embarrassed, General Solo, but it appears you are to be the 
main course at a
banquet in my honor.

The drums start beating, and all the furry heads turn to the large hut. 
Leia emerges, wearing an animal-skin dress. She sees what's happening 
at the same moment the prisoners see her.

HAN and LUKE
Leia!

As she moves toward them, the Ewoks block her way with raised spears.

LEIA
Oh!

THREEPIO
Your Royal Highness.

Artoo and Chewie chime in with their welcome. Leia looks at the 
assembled Ewoks and sighs.

LEIA
But these are my friends. Threepio, tell them they must be set free.

Threepio talks to Chirpa and Logray, who listen and shake their heads 
negatively. The Medicine Man gestures toward the prisoners and barks 
some orders. Several Ewoks jump up and pile more wood on the barbecue 
with vigor. Leia trades frantic looks with Luke and Han .

HAN
Somehow, I got the feeling that didn't help us very much.

LUKE
Threepio, tell them if they don't do as you wish, you'll become angry 
and use your magic.

THREEPIO
But Master Luke, what magic? I couldn't possibly --

LUKE
Just tell them.

Threepio speaks to the Ewoks. The Ewoks are disturbed. Logray steps 
forward and challenges Threepio. Luke closes his eyes and begins to 
concentrate.

THREEPIO
You see, Master Luke; they didn't believe me. Just...

Now the litter/throne, with Threepio sitting upon it, rises from the 
ground. At first Threepio doesn't notice and keeps talking.

THREEPIO
... as I said they wouldn't. Wha-wha-what's happening! Oh! Oh, dear! 
Oh!

The Ewoks fall back in terror from the floating throne. Now Threepio 
begins to spin as though he were on a revolving stool, with Threepio 
calling out in total panic at his situation.

THREEPIO
Put me down! He-e-elp! Master Luke! Artoo! Somebody, somebody, help! 
Master Luke, Artoo! Artoo, quickly! Do something, somebody! Oh! Ohhh!

Chief Chirpa yells orders to the cowering Ewoks. They rush up and 
release the bound prisoners. Luke and Han enfold Leia in a group 
embrace. Luke notices the spinning Threepio, with Artoo beeping up at 
him, and slowly lowers the golden droid and the throne to the ground. 
Logray orders the little droid cut down. Artoo crashes to the ground. 
When the Ewoks set him upright, the little droid is fighting mad. Artoo 
beeps a blue streak at the nearest Ewok, and begins pursuing him, 
finally getting close enough to zap him with an electric charge. The 
Ewok jumps two feet in the air and runs away, screaming. A small group 
of Ewoks surround the giant Wookiee, scratching their heads and 
marveling at his height.

THREEPIO
Oh, oh, oh, oh! Thank goodness.

LUKE
Thanks, Threepio.

THREEPIO	 (still shaken)
I...I never knew I had it in me.

75   INT CHIEF'S HUT - COUNCIL OF ELDERS

A glowing fire dances in the center of the spartan, low-ceilinged room, 
creating a kaleidoscope of shadows on the walls. Along one side, a 
group of ten Ewok elders flank Chief Chirpa, who sits on his throne. 
The Rebels sit along the walls of the hut, with Threepio between the 
two groups and Wicket and Teebo off to one side.

Threepio is in the midst of a long, animated speech in the Ewok's 
squeaky native tongue. The Ewoks listen carefully and occasionally 
murmur comments to each other. Threepio points several times at the 
Rebel group and pantomimes a short history of the Galactic Civil War, 
mimicking the explosion and rocket sounds, imitating Imperial walkers. 
Throughout the long account, certain familiar names are distinguishable 
in English: Princess Leia, Artoo, Darth Vader, Death Star, Jedi, Obi-
Wan Kenobi. Artoo begins beeping excitedly at Threepio.

THREEPIO
Yes, Artoo. I was just coming to that.

Threepio continues with: Millennium Falcon, Cloud City, Vader, Han 
Solo, carbonite, Sarlacc, bringing the history up to the present time.

At the end of it, the Chief, Logray, and the elders confer, then nod in 
agreement. The Chief stands and makes a pronouncement.

The drums begin to sound, and all the Ewoks stand with a great cheer 
and screeches.

HAN
What's going on?

LEIA
I don't know.

Luke has been sharing the joy with smiling visage, but now something 
passes like a dark cloud through his consciousness. The others do not 
notice.

THREEPIO
Wonderful! We are now a part of the tribe.

Several of the little teddy bears run up and hug the Rebels.

HAN
Just what I always wanted.

Chewbacca is being enthusiastically embraced by an Ewok, while Wicket 
clings to Han's leg.

HAN	 (chuckles)
Well, short help is better than no help at all, Chewie. 
(to Wicket) 
Thank you. Okay.

THREEPIO
He says the scouts are going to show us the quickest way to the shield 
generator.

Chewie barks. Luke has drifted to the back of the hut. Now he wanders 
outside into the moonlight. Leia notices and follows.

HAN
Good. How far is it? Ask him. We need some fresh supplies, too. And try 
and get our weapons back.

Han pulls Threepio back as he keeps trying to translate.

HAN	 (cont)
And hurry up, will ya? I haven't got all day.

76   EXT EWOK VILLAGE - NIGHT

The walkway is deserted now. The windows of the little huts glow and 
flicker from the fires inside. The sounds of the forest fill the soft 
night air. Luke has wandered away from the Chief's hut and stands 
staring up at the Death Star. Leia finds him like that.

LEIA
Luke, what's wrong?

Luke turns and looks at her a long moment.

LUKE
Leia... do you remember your mother? Your real mother?

LEIA
Just a little bit. She died when I was very young.

LUKE
What do you remember?

LEIA
Just...images, really. Feelings.

LUKE
Tell me.

LEIA
(a little surprised at his insistence)
She was very beautiful. Kind, but...sad.
(looks up)
Why are you asking me all this?

He looks away.

LUKE
I have no memory of my mother. I never knew her.

LEIA
Luke, tell me. What's troubling you?

LUKE
Vader is here...now, on this moon.

LEIA	 (alarmed)
How do you know?

LUKE
I felt his presence. He's come for me. He can feel when I'm near. 
That's why I have to go.
(facing her)
As long as I stay, I'm endangering the group and our mission here.
(beat)
I have to face him.

Leia is distraught, confused.

LEIA
Why?

Luke moves close and his manner is gentle. And very calm.

LUKE
He's my father.

LEIA
Your father?

LUKE
There's more. It won't be easy for you to hear it, but you must. If I 
don't make it back, you're the only hope for the Alliance.

Leia is very disturbed by this. She moves away, as if to deny it.

LEIA
Luke, don't talk that way. You have a power I--I don't understand and 
could never have.

LUKE
You're wrong, Leia. You have that power too. In time you'll learn to 
use it as I have. The Force is strong in my family. My father has 
it...I have it...and...my sister has it.

Leia stares into his eyes. What she sees there frightens her. But she 
doesn't draw away. She begins to understand.

LUKE
Yes. It's you Leia.

LEIA
I know. Somehow...I've always known.

LUKE
Then you know why I have to face him.

LEIA
No! Luke, run away, far away. If he can feel your presence, then leave 
this place. I wish I could go with you.

LUKE
No, you don't. You've always been strong.

LEIA
But, why must you confront him?

LUKE
Because...there is good in him. I've felt it. He won't turn me over to 
the Emperor. I can save him. I can turn him back to the good side. I 
have to try.

They hold each other close and look at each other, brother and sister.

Leia holds back her tears as Luke slowly lets her go and moves away. He 
disappears onto the walkway that leads out of the village. Leia, bathed 
in moonlight, watches him go as Han comes out of the Chief's hut and 
comes over to her. Leia is crying, her body trembling. He realizes only 
now that she is crying.

HAN
Hey, what's goin' on?

Leia attempts to stifle her sobs and wipes her eyes.

LEIA
Nothing. I - just want to be alone for a little while.

HAN	 (angry)
Nothing?  Come on, tell me.  What's goin' on?

She looks up at him, struggling to control herself.

LEIA
I...I can't tell you.

HAN	 (loses his temper)
Did you tell Luke? Is that who you could tell?

LEIA
I...

HAN
Ahhh...

He starts to walk away, exasperated, then stops and walks back to her.

HAN
I'm sorry.

LEIA
Hold me.

Han gathers her tightly in his protective embrace.

77   EXT FOREST - IMPERIAL LANDING PLATFORM

An Imperial shuttle floats down from the Death Star and lands 
gracefully on the huge platform.

Now, an Imperial walker approaches the platform from the darkness of 
the forest. The whole outpost - platform, walkers, military - looks 
particularly offensive in the midst of this verdant beauty.

78   EXT IMPERIAL LANDING PLATFORM - LOWER DECK

Darth Vader walks down the ramp of the shuttle onto the platform, into 
an elevator, and appears on a ramp on a lower level. He walks toward 
another ramp exit and is met by two troopers and a commander with Luke, 
in binders, at their center. The young Jedi gazes at Vader with 
complete calm.

COMMANDER
This is a Rebel that surrendered to us. Although he denies it, I 
believe there may be more of them, and I request permission to conduct 
a further search of the area.

The commander extends his hand, revealing Luke's lightsaber.

COMMANDER
He was armed only with this.

Vader looks at Luke, turns away and faces the commander, taking the 
lightsaber from the commander's hand.

VADER
Good work, Commander. Leave us. Conduct your search and bring his 
companions to me.

COMMANDER
Yes, my Lord.

The officer and troops withdraw. Vader and Luke are left standing alone 
in the oddly tranquil beauty of the place. The sounds of the forest 
filter in upon them.

VADER
The Emperor has been expecting you.

LUKE
I know, father.

VADER
So, you have accepted the truth.

LURE
I've accepted the truth that you were once Anakin Skywalker, my father.

VADER	 (turning to face him)
That name no longer has any meaning for me.

LUKE
It is the name of your true self. You've only forgotten. I know there 
is good in you. The Emperor hasn't driven it from you fully. That is 
why you couldn't destroy me. That's why you won't bring me to your 
Emperor now.

Vader looks down from Luke to the lightsaber in his own black- gloved 
hand. He seems to ponder Luke's words.

VADER	 (indicating lightsaber)
I see you have constructed a new lightsaber.

Vader ignites the lightsaber and holds it to examine its humming, 
brilliant blade.

VADER
Your skills are complete. Indeed, you are powerful, as the Emperor has 
foreseen.

They stand for a moment, the Vader extinguishes the lightsaber.

LUKE
Come with me.

VADER
Obi-Wan once thought as you do.

Luke steps close to Vader, then stops. Vader is still.

VADER
You don't know the power of the dark side. I must obey my master.

LUKE
I will not turn...and you'll be forced to kill me.

VADER
If that is your destiny.

LUKE
Search your feelings, father. You can't do this. I feel the conflict 
within you. Let go
of your hate.

VADER
It is too late for me, son. The Emperor will show you the true nature 
of the Force. He is
your master now.

Vader signals to some distant stormtroopers. He and Luke stand staring 
at one another for a long moment.

LUKE
Then my father is truly dead.

79   EXT ENDOR - RIDGE OVERLOOKING SHIELD GENERATOR

Han, Leia, Chewbacca, the droids, Wicket, and another Ewok scout, 
PAPLOO, hide on a ridge overlooking the massive Imperial shield 
generator. At the base of the generator is an Imperial landing 
platform. Leia studies the installation.

LEIA
The main entrance to the control bunker's on the far side of that 
landing platform. This
isn't gonna be easy.

HAN
Hey, don't worry. Chewie and me got into a lot of places more heavily 
guarded than this.

Wicket and Paploo are chattering away in Ewok language. They speak to 
Threepio.

LEIA
What's he saying?

THREEPIO
He says there's a secret entrance on the other side of the ridge.

80   EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET

The vast fleet hangs in space near a blue planet. A giant Rebel Star 
Cruiser is up at the front, but now the Millennium Flacon roars up to a 
spot ahead of it, tiny in comparison.

81   INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando is in the pilot seat. His alien copilot, NIEN NUNB, takes some 
getting used to in the familiar environs of the Falcon's cockpit. Lando 
speaks into his comlink.

LANDO
Admiral, we're in position. All fighters accounted for.

ACKBAR 	(VO)
Proceed with the countdown. All groups assume attack coordinates.

Lando turns to his weird copilot.

LANDO
Don't worry, my friends are down there. They'll have that shield down 
on time...
(to himself) 
or this'll be the shortest offensive of all time.

The copilot flips some switches and grunts an alien comment.

ACKBAR	 (VO)
All craft, prepare to jump to hyperspace on my mark.

LANDO
All right. Stand by.

He pulls a lever, and the stars outside begin to streak.

82   EXT SPACE - REBEL FLEET

We are treated to an awesome sight: first the Millennium Falcon, then 
Ackbar's Star Cruiser, then, in large segments, the huge fleet ROARS 
INTO HYPERSPACE. And disappears.

83   EXT ENDOR - RIDGE OVERLOOKING CONTROL BUNKER

Han, Leia, Chewie, the droids, and their two Ewok guides, Wicket and 
Paploo, have reunited with the Rebel strike squad. The entire group is 
spread through the thick undergrowth. Below them is the BUNKER that 
leads into the generator. Four Imperial scouts, their speeder bikes 
parked nearby, keep watch over the bunker entrance. Chewie growls an 
observation, and Paploo chatters away to Han in Ewok language.

HAN
Back door, huh? Good idea.

Wicket and Paploo continue their Ewok conversation.

HAN	 (cont)
It's only a few guards. This shouldn't be too much trouble.

LEIA
Well, it only takes one to sound the alarm.

HAN	 (with self-confident grin)
Then we'll do it real quiet-like.

Threepio explains what is going on to Wicket and Paploo. The Ewoks 
chatter a moment between themselves. Then Paploo jumps up and scampers 
into the underbrush.

Threepio asks Wicket where Paploo went and is given a short reply.

THREEPIO
Oh! Oh, my. Uh, Princess Leia!

LEIA
Quiet.

THREEPIO
I'm afraid our furry companion has gone and done something rather rash.

LEIA
Oh, no.

84   EXT BUNKER - ENTRANCE

Paploo has slipped out of the undergrowth near where the Imperial 
scouts are lounging. He silently swings his furry ball of a body onto 
one of the scout's speeder bikes and begins flipping switches at 
random. Suddenly, the bike's engine fires up with a tremendous ROAR. 
Paploo grins and continues flipping switches. The scouts leap up in 
surprise.

85   EXT RIDGE

Han, Leia and company watch in distress. Chewie barks.

HAN 	(sighs)
There goes our surprise attack.

86   EXT BUNKER

The Imperial scouts race toward Paploo just as his speeder zooms into 
motion. Paploo hangs on by his paws and shoots away into the forest.

SCOUT
Look! Over there! Stop him!

Three of the Imperial scouts jump on their rocket bikes and speed away 
in pursuit. The fourth watches them go from his post at the door.

87   EXT RIDGE

Han, Leia, and Chewie exchange delighted looks.

HAN
Not bad for a little furball. There's only one left. You stay here. 
We'll take care of this.

Han and the Wookiee nod at each other and slip down toward the bunker. 
Threepio moves to stand next to Wicket and Artoo.

THREEPIO
I have decided that we shall stay here.

88   EXT FOREST

Paploo sails through the trees, more lucky than in control. It's scary, 
but he loves it. When the Imperial scouts pull within sight behind him 
and begin firing laser bolts, he decides he's had enough. As he rounds 
a tree, out of their sight, Paploo grabs a vine and swings up into the 
trees. A moment later, the scouts tear under him in pursuit of the 
still-flying, unoccupied bike.

89   EXT BUNKER

Han sneaks up behind the remaining Imperial scout, taps him on the 
shoulder and lets the scout chase him behind the bunker into the arms 
of the waiting Rebel strike team. Han returns to the front, and taps 
out a pattern on the bunker door's control panel. Everyone stands out 
of sight, police-style, as the door opens. Han and Leia peek inside. No 
sign of life. The group enters the bunker silently, leaving one lookout 
behind.

90   INT DEATH STAR - EMPEROR'S THRONE ROOM

The elevator opens. Vader and Luke enter the room alone. They walk 
across the dark space to stand before the throne, father and son side 
by side beneath the gaze of the Emperor. Vader bows to his Master.

EMPEROR
Welcome, young Skywalker. I have been expecting you.

Luke peers at the hooded figure defiantly. The Emperor then looks down 
at Luke's binders.

EMPEROR
You no longer need those.

The Emperor motions ever so slightly with his finger and Luke's binders 
fall away, clattering to the floor. Luke looks down at his own hands, 
free now to reach out and grab the Emperor's neck. He does nothing.

EMPEROR
Guards, leave us.

The red-cloaked guards turn and disappear behind the elevator.

EMPEROR	 (to Luke)
I'm looking forward to completing your training. In time you will call 
me Master.

LUKE
You're gravely mistaken. You won't convert me as you did my father.

The Emperor gets down from his throne and walks up very close to Luke. 
The Emperor looks into his eyes and, for the first time, Luke can 
perceive the evil visage within the hood.

EMPEROR
Oh, no, my young Jedi. You will find that it is you who are 
mistaken...about a great many things.

VADER
His lightsaber.

Vader extends a gloved hand toward the Emperor, revealing Luke's 
lightsaber. The Emperor takes it.

EMPEROR
Ah, yes, a Jedi's weapon. Much like your father's. By now you must know 
your father can never be turned from the dark side. So will it be with 
you.

LUKE
You're wrong. Soon I'll be dead...and you with me.

The Emperor laughs.

EMPEROR
Perhaps you refer to the imminent attack of your Rebel fleet.

Luke looks up sharply.

EMPEROR
Yes...I assure you we are quite safe from your friends here.

Vader looks at Luke.

LUKE
Your overconfidence is your weakness.

EMPEROR
Your faith in your friends is yours.

VADER
It is pointless to resist, my son.

The Emperor turns to face Luke.

EMPEROR	 (angry)
Everything that has transpired has done so according to my design. 
(indicates Endor)
Your friends up there on the Sanctuary Moon...

Luke reacts. The Emperor notes it.

EMPEROR	 (cont)
...are walking into a trap. As is your Rebel fleet! It was I who 
allowed the Alliance to know the location of the shield generator. It 
is quite safe from your pitiful little band. An entire legion of my 
best troops awaits them.

Luke's look darts from the Emperor to Vader and, finally, to the sword 
in the Emperor's hand.

EMPEROR
Oh...I'm afraid the deflector shield will be quite operational when 
your friends arrive.

91   INT BUNKER - MAIN CONTROL ROOM

Han, Leia, Chewie, and the Rebel strike team storm through a door and 
enter the main control room, taking all of the personnel prisoner.

HAN
All right! Up! Move! Come on! Quickly! Quickly, Chewie.

The Rebel troops herd the generator controllers away from their panels. 
Leia glances at one of the screens on the control panel.

LEIA
Han! Hurry! The fleet will be here any moment.

HAN
Charges!  Come on, come on!

Outside, Threepio watches nervously in the bushes as several more 
controllers and stormtroopers run into the bunker, leaving guards at 
the door.

THREEPIO	 (to Wicket)
Oh, my! They'll be captured!

Wicket chatters in Ewok language, and then takes off full steam into 
the forest.

THREEPIO
Wa-wait! Wait, come back! Artoo, stay with me.

Inside the bunker, Han looks up from setting charges as an Imperial 
commander enters.

COMMANDER
Freeze! You Rebel scum.

Han and Leia spin, to find dozens of Imperial weapons trained on them 
and their cohorts. A poised force of Imperial troops surround them. 
Even more pour into the room, roughly disarming the Rebel contingent. 
Han, Leia, and Chewie exchange looks. They're helpless.

92   EXT SPACE - ENDOR, DEATH STAR, REBEL FLEET

The Death Star and its Sanctuary Moon hang distant in space as the 
Rebel fleet comes out of hyperspace with an awesome roar. The 
Millennium Falcon and several Rebel fighters are at the front as the 
space armada bears down on its target.

93   INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando flips switches, checks his screen, and speaks into the radio.

LANDO
All wings report in.

WEDGE
Red Leader standing by.

GRAY LEADER
Gray Leader standing by.

GREEN LEADER
Green Leader standing by.

WEDGE
Lock S-foils in attack positions.

94   INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

From the bridge of the Rebel Headquarters Frigate, Admiral Ackbar 
watches the fighters massing outside his viewscreen.

ACKBAR
May the Force be with us.

95   INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando looks worriedly at his alien copilot, Nien Nunb, who points to 
the control panel and talks to Lando.

LANDO
We've got to be able to get some kind of a reading on that shield, up 
or down. Well, how
could they be jamming us if they don't know if we're coming.

Lando shoots a concerned look out at the approaching Death Star as the 
implications of what he's just said sink in. He hits a switch on his 
comlink.

LANDO
Break off the attack! The shield is still up.

RED LEADER	 (VO)
I get no reading. Are you sure?

LANDO
Pull up! All craft pull up!

The Falcon turns hard to the left. Out the window the stars and the 
Death Star move off right.

96   EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR SHIELD

The Falcon and the fighters of Red Squad veer off desperately to avoid 
the unseen wall.

97   INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Alarms are screaming and lights flashing as the huge ship changes 
course abruptly. Other ships in the fleet shoot by outside as the 
armada tries to halt its forward momentum.

ACKBAR
Take evasive action! Green Group, stick close to holding sector MV-7.

A Mon Calamari controller turns away from his screen and calls out to 
Ackbar, quite excited. The Admiral rushes over to the controller.

CONTROLLER
Admiral, we have enemy ships in sector 47.

On the screen can be seen the moon, Death Star, and the massive 
Imperial fleet. Ackbar moves to the comlink.

ACKBAR
It's a trap!

LANDO	 (over comlink)
Fighters coming in.

There is much excitement on the bridge as the attack begins.

The Millennium Falcon and several squads of Rebel fighters head into an 
armada of TIE fighters. The sky explodes as a fierce dogfight ensues in 
and around the giant Rebel cruisers.

REBEL PILOT
There's too many of them!

LANDO
Accelerate to attack speed! Draw their fire away from the cruisers.

WEDGE
Copy, Gold Leader.

The battle continues around the giant cruisers.

98   INT DEATH STAR - EMPEROR'S THRONE ROOM

Through the round window behind the Emperor's throne can be seen the 
distant flashes of the space battle in progress.

EMPEROR
Come, boy. See for yourself.

The Emperor is sitting in his throne, with Vader standing at his side. 
Luke moves to look through a small section of the window.

EMPEROR
From here you will witness the final destruction of the Alliance, and 
the end of your insignificant Rebellion.

Luke is in torment. He glances at his lightsaber sitting on the armrest 
of the throne. The Emperor watches him and smiles, touches the 
lightsaber.

EMPEROR
You want this, don't you? The hate is swelling in you now. Take your 
Jedi weapon. Use it. I am unarmed. Strike me down with it. Give in to 
your anger. With each passing moment, you make yourself more my 
servant.

Vader watches Luke in his agony.

LUKE
No!

EMPEROR
It is unavoidable. It is your destiny. You, like your father, are now 
mine!

99   EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Han, Leia, Chewie, and the rest of the strike team are led out of the 
bunker by their captors. The surrounding area, deserted before, is now 
crowded with two-legged Imperial walkers and hundreds of Imperial 
troops. The situation looks hopeless.

STORMTROOPER
All right, move it! I said move it! Go on!

From the undergrowth beyond the clearing comes a wild series of beeps 
and whistles. 
And --

THREEPIO
Hello! I say, over there! Were you looking for me?

BUNKER COMMANDER
Bring those two down here!

STORMTROOPER
Let's go!

Artoo and Threepio are standing near one of the big trees. As six 
Imperial stormtroopers rush over to take them captive, the two droids 
duck out of sight behind the tree.

THREEPIO
Well, they're on their way. Artoo, are you sure this was a good idea?

STORMTROOPER
Freeze! Don't move!

THREEPIO
We surrender.

The stormtroopers come around the tree and find the two droids waiting 
quietly to be taken. As the Imperial troops move to do that, however, a 
band of Ewoks drops down from above and overpowers them.

THREEPIO
Ohhh! Stand back, Artoo.

In a nearby tree, an Ewok raises a horn to his lips and sounds the EWOK 
ATTACK CALL. All hell breaks loose as hundreds of Ewoks throw their 
fuzzy bodies into the fray against the assembled stormtroopers and 
their awesome two-legged walkers. Biker scouts dart about blasting 
Ewoks, only to be crushed by a volley of rocks tossed by Ewoks from the 
trees above.

In the confusion of the battle, Han and Leia break away and dive for 
the cover of the bunker door as explosions erupt around them. Han goes 
to the bunker door control panel.

LEIA
The code's changed. We need Artoo!

HAN
Here's the terminal.

LEIA	 (into comlink)
Artoo, where are you? We need you at the bunker right away.

Artoo and Threepio are hiding behind a log as the battle ragesaround 
them. Suddenly the stubby little astrodroid lets out a series of 
whistles and shoots off across the battlefield. Threepio, panicked, 
runs after him.

THREEPIO
Going? What do you mean, you're going. But-- but going where, Artoo? 
No, what! Artoo! Oh, this is no time for heroics. Come back!

Biker scouts race around and over the two droids, blasting away at the 
little Ewoks as the furries scurry for cover.

A group of Ewoks have moved a primitive catapult into position. They 
fire off a large boulder that hits one of the walkers. The walker turns 
and heads for the catapult, blasting away with both guns. The Ewoks 
abandon their weapons and flee in all directions. Just as the walker 
moves in to stomp the catapult, Ewoks drop vines restraining two huge 
logs that swing down and smash thewalker's head flat.

A line of Ewoks hang desperately to a vine that is hooked to a walker's 
foot. As the walker moves along, the fuzzy creatures are dragged 
behind.

Two speeder bikes chase Ewoks through the underbrush. As the scouts 
round a tree, they are knocked off their bikes by a vinetied between 
two trees.

100  EXT SPACE

The Falcon and other Rebel fighters are engaged in a ferocious combat 
with Imperial TIE fighters, the battle raging around thecruisers of the 
Rebel armada.

101  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT
Lando is in radio communication with the pilots of the other Rebel 
squads.

LANDO
Watch yourself, Wedge! Three from above!

WEDGE
Red Three, Red Two, pull in!

RED TWO
Got it!

RED THREE
Three of them coming in, twenty degrees!

WEDGE
Cut to the left! I'll take the leader! They're heading for the medical 
frigate.

Lando steers the Falcon through a complete flip, as his crew fires at 
the TIEs from the belly guns.

NAVIGATOR
Pressure's steady.

The copilot Nien Nunb chatters an observation.

LANDO
Only the fighters are attacking.  I wonder what those Star Destroyers 
are waiting for.

102  EXT SPACE - IMPERIAL FLEET  

The giant Imperial Star Destroyer waits silently some distance from the 
battle. The Emperor's huge Super Star Destroyer rests in the middle of 
the fleet.

103  INT SUPER STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Admiral Piett and two fleet commanders watch the battle at the huge 
window of the Super Star Destroyer bridge.

COMMANDER
We're in attack position now, sir.

PIETT
Hold here.

COMMANDER
We're not going to attack?

PIETT
I have my orders from the Emperor himself. He has something special 
planned for them. We only need to keep them from escaping.

104  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

The Emperor, Vader, and a horrified Luke watch the aerial battle 
fireworks out the window and on the viewscreens. Another Rebel ship 
explodes against the protective shield.

EMPEROR
As you can see, my young apprentice, your friends have failed. Now 
witness the firepower of this fully armed and operational battle 
station.
(into comlink)
Fire at will, Commander.

Luke, in shock, looks out across the surface of the Death Star to the 
Rebel fleet beyond.

105  INT DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Controllers pull back on several switches. Commander Jerjerrod stands 
over them.

JERJERROD
Fire!

106  INT DEATH STAR - BLAST CHAMBER

A button is pressed, which switches on a panel of lights. A hooded 
Imperial soldier reaches overhead and pulls a lever. A huge beam of 
light emanates from a long shaft. Two stormtroopers stand to one side 
at a control panel.

107  EXT DEATH STAR

The giant laser dish on the completed half of the Death Star begins to 
glow; Then a powerful beams shoots out toward the aerial battle.

108  EXT SPACE - AIR BATTLE

The air is thick with giant ships. In among them, Rebel X-wings 
dogfight with Imperial TIE fighters. Now an enormous Rebel cruiser is 
hit by the Death Star beam and is blown to dust.

The Millennium Falcon roars over CAMERA, followed closely byseveral TIE 
fighters.

109  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The ship is buffeted by the tremendous explosion of the Rebel cruiser. 
Lando and his copilot are stunned by the sight of the Death Star 
firepower.

LANDO
That blast came from the Death Star! That thing's operational! 
(into comlink)
Home One, this is Gold Leader.

110  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Ackbar stands amid the confusion on the wide bridge and speaks into the 
comlink.

ACKBAR
We saw it. All craft prepare to retreat.

LANDO
You won't get another chance at this, Admiral.

ACKBAR
We have no choice, General Calrissian. Our cruisers can't repel 
firepower of that magnitude.

LANDO
Han will have that shield down. We've got to give him more time.

111  EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Artoo and Threepio make it to the door, as Han and Leia provide cover 
fire.

THREEPIO
We're coming!

HAN
Come on! Come on!

THREEPIO
Oh, Artoo, hurry!

The little droid moves to the terminal and plugs in his computer arm. A 
large explosion hits near Artoo, knocking him head over heels, finally 
landing on his feet. The stubby astrodroid's head is spinning and 
smoldering. Suddenly there is a loud SPROOING and Han and Leia turn 
around to see Artoo with all his compartment doors open, and all of his 
appendages sticking out; water and smoke spurt out of the nozzles in 
his body. Han rushes to the terminal, as Threepio rushes to his wounded 
companion.

THREEPIO
My goodness! Artoo, why did you have to be so brave?

HAN
Well, I suppose I could hotwire this thing.

LEIA
I'll cover you.

Ewoks in handmade, primitive hanggliders drop rocks onto the 
stormtroopers, divebombing their deadly adversaries.  One is hit in the 
wing with laser fire and crashes. A walker lumbers forward, shooting 
laser blasts at frantic Ewoks running in all directions.  Two Ewoks are 
struck down by laser blasts.  One tries to awaken his friend, then 
realizes that he is dead.

112  EXT SPACE - DEATH STAR

The Rebel fleet continues to be picked off, from one side by the Death 
Star's deadly beam, from the other by the rampaging Imperial Star 
Destroyers.

113  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando steers the Falcon wildly through an obstacle course of floating 
giants. He's been yelling into the comlink.

LANDO	 (desperately)
Yes! I said closer! Move as close as you can and engage those Star 
Destroyers at point-
blank range.

ACKBAR
At that close range, we won't last long against those Star Destroyers.

LANDO
We'll last longer then we will against that Death Star...and we might 
just take a few of
them with us.

The Rebel cruisers move very close to the Imperial Star Destroyers and 
begin to blast away at point-blank range. Tiny fighters race across the 
giant surfaces, against a backdrop of laser fire.

The control tower of a Star Destroyer is under attack.

REBEL PILOT
She's gonna blow!

Y-WING PILOT
I'm hit!

The damaged Y-wing plummets toward the Star Destroyer, and crashes into 
the control tower, exploding.

114  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Out of the window and on the view screens, the Rebel fleet is being 
decimated in blinding explosions of light and debris. But in here there 
is no sound of battle. The Emperor turns to Luke.

EMPEROR
Your fleet has lost. And your friends on the Endor moon will not 
survive. There is no escape, my young apprentice. The Alliance will 
die...as will your friends.

Luke's eyes are full of rage. Vader watches him.

EMPEROR
Good. I can feel your anger. I am defenseless.  Take your weapon! 
Strike me down with all your hatred, and your journey towards the dark 
side will be complete.

Luke can resist no longer. The lightsaber flies into his hand. He 
ignites it in an instant and swings at the Emperor. Vader's lightsaber 
flashes into view, blocking Luke's blow before it can reach the 
Emperor. The two blades spark at contact. Luke turns to fight his 
father.

115  EXT FOREST

The battle rages on. Stormtroopers fire on Ewoks with sophisticated 
weapons while their furry little adversaries sneak up behind the 
Imperial troopers and bash them over the head with large clubs.

A walker marches through the undergrowth blasting Ewoks as it goes. An 
Ewok warrior gives the signal, and a pile of logs is cut loose. The 
logs tumble under the walker's feet, causing it to slip and slide until 
it finally topples over with a great crash.

A scout bike races past and is lassoed with a heavy vine. The other end 
of the vine is tied to a tree, and the bike swings around in ever-
tightening circles until it runs out of rope and
crashes into the trees with a huge explosion.

Chewie swings on a vine to the roof of one of the walkers. Two Ewoks 
cling to him. They land with a thud on the top of the lurching machine, 
then hang on for dear life. One of the Ewoks peeks through the window.

WALKER PILOT #1
Look!

PILOT #2
Get him off of there!

The walker pilot opens the hatch to see what's going on. He is yanked 
out and tossed overboard before he can scream. The two Ewoks jump into 
the cockpit and knock the second pilot unconscious. The Ewoks are 
thrown violently as the mighty machine careens out of control. Outside, 
Chewie is almost knocked overboard; he sticks his head into the hatch 
with a series of angry barks. The Ewoks are too busy and frightened to 
listen to the Wookiee's complaint. Chewie slips inside the walker.

Chewbacca's walker moves through the forest, firing laser blasts at 
unsuspecting stormtroopers, and destroying other Imperial walkers. The 
Ewoks shout and cheer as the giant machine helps turn the tide of the 
battle in their favor.

116  EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Han works furiously at the control panel; wires spark as he attempts to 
hotwire the door. He motions to Leia, who is blasting away at some 
stormtroopers.

HAN
I think I got it. I got it!

The three wires spark as the connection is made. With a LOUD WHOOSH, a 
second blast door crashes down in front of the first.

Han frowns and turns back to the wires again. Leia exchanges shots with 
stormtroopers in the bushes, then suddenly cries out in pain, her 
shoulder hit by a laser blast.

THREEPIO
Oh, Princess Leia, are you all right?

HAN
Let's see.

LEIA
It's not bad.

STORMTROOPER	 (OS)
Freeze!

They freeze.

THREEPIO
Oh, dear.

STORMTROOPER
Don't move!

Leia holds her laser gun ready, behind Han, out of view of the two 
stormtroopers moving toward them. Han and Leia's eyes lock; the moment 
seems suspended in time.

HAN
I love you.

Another shared look between them, as she smiles up at Han.

LEIA
I know.

STORMTROOPER
Hands up! Stand up!

Han stands up slowly and turns, revealing the gun in Leia's hand. She 
disposes of the stormtroopers in a flash. As Han turns back toward 
Leia, he looks up to see a giant walker approach and stand before him, 
its deadly weapons aimed right at him.

HAN	 (to Leia)
Stay back.

The hatch on top of the walker opens and Chewie sticks his head out and 
barks triumphantly.

HAN
Chewie!  Get down here!  She's wounded!  No, wait....  I got an idea.

117  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Luke and Vader are engaged in a man-to-man duel of lightsabers even 
more vicious then the battle on Bespin. But the young Jedi has grown 
stronger in the interim, and now the advantage shifts to him. Vader is 
forced back, losing his balance, and is knocked down the stairs. Luke 
stands at the top of the stairs, ready to attack.

EMPEROR (laughing)
Good.  Use your aggressive feelings, boy!  Let the hate flow through 
you.

Luke looks momentarily toward the Emperor, then back to Vader, and 
realizes he is using the dark side. He steps back, turns off his 
lightsaber, and relaxes, driving the hate from his being.

VADER
Obi-Wan has taught you well.

LUKE
I will not fight you, father.

Vader walks back up the stairs to Luke.

VADER
You are unwise to lower your defenses.

Vader attacks, forcing Luke on the defensive. The young Jedi leaps in 
an amazing reverse flip up to the safety of the catwalk overhead. Vader 
stands below him.

LUKE
Your thoughts betray you, father. I feel the good in you...the 
conflict.

VADER
There is no conflict.

LUKE
You couldn't bring yourself to kill me before, and I don't believe 
you'll destroy me
now.

VADER
You underestimate the power of the dark side. If you will not fight, 
then you will meet
your destiny.

Vader throws the laser sword and it cuts through the supports holding 
the catwalk, then returns to Vader's hand. Luke tumbles to the ground 
in a shower of sparks and rolls out of sight under the Emperor's 
platform. Vader moves to find him.

EMPEROR	 (laughs)
Good.  Good.

118  EXT SPACE - AIR BATTLE

The two armadas, like their sea-bound ancestors, blast away at each 
other in individual point-blank confrontations. A Star Destroyer 
explodes. The Rebel victor limps away, its back half alive with a 
series of minor explosions. The Rebel cruiser manages to move in next 
to a second Star Destroyer before it explodes completely, taking the 
Imperial Star Destroyer with it. The Falcon and several fighters attack 
one of the larger Imperial ships.

LANDO
Watch out. Squad at .06.

REBEL PILOT
I'm on it, Gold Leader.

WEDGE
Good shot, Red Two.

LANDO
Now...come on, Han, old buddy. Don't let me down.

119  INT BUNKER - CONTROL ROOM

Controllers watch the main viewscreen on which a vague figure of an 
Imperial walker pilot can be seen. There is a great deal of static and 
interference.

HAN/PILOT	 (VO)
It's over, Commander. The Rebels have been routed. They're fleeing into 
the woods. We
need reinforcements to continue the pursuit.

The controllers cheer.

CONTROL ROOM COMMANDER
Send three squads to help. Open the back door.

SECOND COMMANDER
Yes, sir.

120  EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

As the door to the bunker opens and the Imperial troops rush out, 
they're surprised to find themselves surrounded by Rebels, their 
weapons pointed at them. Ewoks holding bows and arrows appear on the 
roof of the bunker. The Imperial troops throw down their guns
as Han and Chewie rush inside the bunker with explosive charges.

121  INT BUNKER - CONTROL ROOM

Han, Chewie, and several troops rush into the control room and plant 
explosive charges on the control panels and rush out.

HAN
Throw me another charge.

122  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Vader stalks the low-ceilinged area on the level below the throne, 
searching for Luke in the semi-darkness, his lightsaber held ready.

VADER
You cannot hide forever, Luke.

LUKE
I will not fight you.

VADER
Give yourself to the dark side. It is the only way you can save your 
friends. Yes, your
thoughts betray you. Your feelings for them are strong. Especially 
for...

Vader stops and senses something. Luke shuts his eyes tightly, in 
anguish.

VADER
Sister! So...you have a twin sister. Your feelings have now betrayed 
her, too. Obi-Wan
was wise to hide her from me. Now his failure is complete. If you will 
not turn to the dark
side, then perhaps she will.

LUKE
Never-r-r!

Luke ignites his lightsaber and screams in anger, rushing at hisfather 
with a frenzy we have not seen before. Sparks fly as Luke and Vader 
fight in the cramped area. Luke's hatred forces Vader to retreat out of 
the low area and across a bridge overlooking a vast elevator shaft. 
Each stroke of Luke's sword drives his father further toward defeat.

The Dark Lord is knocked to his knees, and as he raises his sword to 
block another onslaught, Luke slashes Vader's right hand off at the 
wrist, causing metal and electronic parts to fly from the mechanical 
stump. Vader's sword clatters uselessly away, over the
edge of the platform and into the bottomless shaft below. Luke moves 
over Vader and holds the blade of his sword to the Dark Lord's throat. 
The Emperor watches with uncontrollable, pleased agitation.

EMPEROR
Good! Your hate has made you powerful. Now, fulfill your destiny and 
take your father's
place at my side!

Luke looks at his father's mechanical hand, then to his own mechanical, 
black-gloved hand, and realizes how much he is becoming like his 
father. He makes the decision for which he has spent a lifetime in 
preparation. Luke steps back and hurls his lightsaber away.

LUKE
Never! I'll never turn to the dark side. You've failed, Your Highness. 
I am a Jedi,
like my father before me.

The Emperor's glee turns to rage.

EMPEROR
So be it...Jedi.

123  EXT FOREST - GENERATOR BUNKER

Han and several of the fighters run out of the bunker and race across 
the clearing.

HAN
Move! Move!

A shock wave knocks them flat as the bunker explodes, followed by a 
spectacular display as the huge shield-generator radar dish explodes 
along with the bunker.

124  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Ackbar, sitting in his control chair, speaks into the radio.

ACKBAR
The shield is down! Commence attack on theDeath Star's main reactor.

LANDO
We're on our way. Red Group, Gold Group, all fighters follow me. 
(laughs)
Told you they'd do it!

The Falcon, followed by several smaller Rebel fighters, heads toward 
the unfinished superstructure of the Death Star.

125  INT EMPEROR'S TOWER - THRONE ROOM

Luke stands still, as the Emperor reaches the bottom of thestairs. The 
Emperor's laughter has turned to anger. He raises his arms toward Luke.

EMPEROR
If you will not be turned, you will be destroyed.

Blinding bolts of energy, evil lightning, shoot from the Emperor's 
hands at Luke. Even in his surprise, the young Jedi tries to use the 
Force to deflect them. At first he is half successful, but after a 
moment the bolts of energy are coming with such speed and power the 
young Jedi shrinks before them, his knees buckling. The wounded Vader 
struggles to his feet, and moves to stand at his master's side.

EMPEROR
Young fool...only now, at the end, do you understand.

Luke is almost unconscious beneath the continuing assault of the 
Emperor's lightning. He clutches a canister to keep from falling into 
the bottomless shaft as the bolts tear through him.

EMPEROR
Your feeble skills are no match for the power of the dark side. You 
have paid the price for
your lack of vision.

Luke writhes on the floor in unbearable pain, reaching weakly up toward 
where Vader stands watching.

LUKE	 (groans)
Father, please. Help me.

Again Vader stands, watching Luke. He looks at his master, the Emperor, 
then back to Luke on the floor.

EMPEROR
Now, young Skywalker...you will die.

Although it would not have seemed possible, the outpouring of bolts 
from the Emperor's fingers actually increases in intensity, the sound 
screaming through the room. Luke's body writhes in pain.

Vader grabs the Emperor from behind, fighting for control of the robed 
figure despite the Dark Lord's weakened body and gravely weakened arm. 
The Emperor struggles in his embrace, his bolt-shooting hands now 
lifted high, away from Luke. Now the white lightning arcs back to 
strike at Vader. He stumbles with his load as the sparks rain off his 
helmet and flow down over his black cape. He holds his evil master high 
over his head and walks to the edge of the abyss at the central core of 
the throne room. With one final burst of his once awesome strength, 
Darth Vader hurls the Emperor's body into the bottomless shaft.

The Emperor's body spins helplessly into the void, arcing as it falls 
into the abyss. Finally, when the body is far down the shaft, it 
explodes, creating a rush of air through the room.Vader's cape is 
whipped by the wind and he staggers, and collapses toward the 
bottomless hole. Luke crawls to his father's side and pulls him away 
from the edge of the abyss to safety. Both the young Jedi and the giant 
warrior are too weak to move.

126  EXT/INT - SPACE BATTLE - FIGHTER AND DEATH STAR

Rebel fighters follow the Falcon across the surface of the Death Star 
to the unfinished portion, where they dive into the superstructure of 
the giant battle station, followed by many TIE fighters.

WEDGE
I'm going in.

LANDO
Here goes nothing.

Three X-wings lead the chase through the ever-narrowing shaft, followed 
by the Falcon and four other fighters, plus TIE fighters who 
continually fire at the Rebels. Lights reflect off the pilot's faces as 
they race through the dark shaft.

LANDO
Now lock onto the strongest power source. It should be the power 
generator.

WEDGE
Form up. And stay alert. We could run out of space real fast.

The fighters and the Falcon race through the tunnel, still pursued by 
the TIE fighters. One of the X-wings is hit from behind and explodes.

LANDO
Split up and head back to the surface. See if you can get a few of 
those TIE fighters to
follow you.

PILOT
Copy, Gold Leader.

The Rebel ships peel off pursued by three of the TIE's, while Lando and 
Wedge continue through the main tunnel. It narrows, and the Falcon 
scrapes the side dangerously. Two other TIE fighters continue to blast 
away at them.

LANDO
That was too close.

Nien Nunb agrees. The battle between the Rebel and Imperial fleet rages 
on. Several cruisers fire at the giant Super Star Destroyer.

127  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

ACKBAR
We've got to give those fighters more time. Concentrate all fire on 
that Super Star Destroyer.

X-wings pilots head across the surface of the huge battleship.

128  INT VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Admiral Piett and a commander stand at the window, looking out to the 
battle. They look concerned.

CONTROLLER
Sir, we've lost our bridge deflector shield.

PIETT
Intensify the forward batteries. I don't want anything to get through.

The commander is looking out of the window where a damaged Rebel 
fighter is out of control and heading directly toward the bridge.

PIETT
Intensify forward firepower!

COMMANDER
It's too late!

The Rebel pilot screams as his ship hits the Star Destroyer, causing a 
huge explosion. The giant battle ship loses control, crashes into the 
Death Star, and explodes.

129  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

There is excitement on the bridge as the battle rages on all sides. 
They cheer as the giant Star Destroyer blows up.

130  INT DEATH STAR - MAIN DOCKING BAY

Chaos. For the first time, the Death Star is rocked by explosions as 
the Rebel fleet, no longer backed against a wall, zooms over, unloading 
a heavy barrage. Imperial troops run in all directions, confused and 
desperate to escape.

In the midst of this uproar, Luke is trying to carry the enormous 
deadweight of his father's weakening body toward an Imperial shuttle. 
Finally, Luke collapses from the strain. The explosions grow louder as 
Vader draws him closer.

VADER	 (a whisper)
Luke, help me take this mask off.

LURE
But you'll die.

VADER
Nothing can stop that now. Just for once... let me look on you with my 
own eyes.

Slowly, hesitantly, Luke removes the mask from his father's face. There 
beneath the scars is an elderly man. His eyes do not focus. But the 
dying man smiles at the sight before him.

ANAKIN	 (very weak)
Now...go, my son. Leave me.

LUKE
No. You're coming with me. I can't leave you here. I've got to save 
you.

ANAKIN
You already have, Luke. You were right about me. Tell your sister...you 
were right.

LUKE
Father...I won't leave you.

Darth Vader, Anakin Skywalker...Luke's father, dies.

A huge explosion rocks the docking bay. Slowly, Luke rises and, half 
carrying, half dragging the body of his father, stumbles toward a 
shuttle.

131  EXT DEATH STAR

The Millennium Falcon leads a swerving bomb run through the immense 
superstructure of the half-built Death Star. The Rebel Star Cruisers 
outside continually bombard the huge station. And each direct hit is 
answered by resonating, chain-reaction explosions within the station 
itself.

132  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT AND GUN PORTS

Lando's crew fires away at the pursuing TIE fighters as the dashing 
Baron of Bespin and his alien copilot home in on the main reactor 
shaft. It is awesome. A lone X-wing is just in front of the Falcon.

WEDGE
There it is!

LANDO
All right, Wedge. Go for the power regulator on the north tower.

WEDGE
Copy, Gold Leader. I'm already on my way out.

The X-wing heads for the top of the huge reactor and fires several 
proton torpedoes at the power regulator, causing a series of small 
explosions.

The Falcon heads for the main reactor, and when it is dangerously 
close, Lando fires the missiles, which shoot out of the Falcon with a 
powerful roar, and hit directly at the center of the main reactor.

He maneuvers the Falcon out of the winding superstructure just ahead of 
the continuing chain of explosions.

133  INT REBEL STAR CRUISER - BRIDGE

Ackbar and other Mon Calamari lean on the railing of the bridge, 
watching the large screen showing the Death Star in the main briefing 
room.

ACKBAR
Move the fleet away from the Death Star.

134  EXT DEATH STAR

An Imperial shuttle, with Luke alone in the cockpit, rockets out of the 
main docking bay as that entire section of the Death Star is blown 
away.

Finally, just as it looks like the Falcon will not make it, Lando 
expertly pilots the craft out of the exploding superstructure and 
whizzes toward the Sanctuary Moon, only a moment before the Death Star 
supernovas into oblivion.

135  INT MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando and Nien Nunb laugh and cheer in relief.

136  EXT ENDOR FOREST

Han and Leia, Chewie, the droids, the Rebel troops, and the Ewoks all 
look to the sky as the Death Star reveals itself in a final flash of 
self-destruction. They all cheer.

THREEPIO
They did it!

Han looks town from the sky to Leia, a look of concern on his face. 
Leia continues to look at the sky as though listening for a silent 
voice.

HAN
I'm sure Luke wasn't on that thing when it blew.

LEIA
He wasn't. I can feel it.

HAN
You love him, don't you?

Leia smiles, puzzled.

LEIA
Yes.

HAN
All right. I understand. Fine. When he comes back, I won't get in the 
way.

She realizes his misunderstanding.

LEIA
Oh. No, it's not like that at all. He's my brother.

Han is stunned by this news. She smiles, and they embrace.

137  EXT ENDOR FOREST - NIGHT

Luke sets a torch to the logs stacked under a funeral pyre where his 
father's body lies, again dressed in black mask and helmet. He stands, 
watching sadly, as the flames leap higher to consume Darth Vader -- 
Anakin Skywalker.

In the sky above, fireworks explode and Rebel fighters zoom above the 
forest.

138  EXT EWOK VILLAGE SQUARE - NIGHT

A huge bonfire is the centerpiece of a wild celebration. Rebels and 
Ewoks rejoice in the warm glow of firelight, drums beating, singing, 
dancing, and laughing in the communal language of victory and 
liberation.

Lando runs in and is enthusiastically hugged by Han and Chewie. Then, 
finally, Luke arrives and the friends rush to greet and embrace him. 
They stand close, this hardy group, taking comfort in each other's 
touch, together to the end.

Rebels and Ewoks join together in dancing and celebration. The original 
group of adventurers watch from the sidelines. Only Luke seems 
distracted, alone in their midsts, his thoughts elsewhere.

He looks off to the side and sees three shimmering, smiling figures at 
the edge of the shadows: Ben Kenobi, Yoda, and Anakin Skywalker.

FADE OUT

END CREDITS OVER STAR FIELD


				THE EMPIRE STRIKES BACK

					 Written by

				   Lawrence Kasdan 

					    and 

				    Leigh Brackett

				   From a story by

					George Lucas

EXT. GALAXY - PLANET HOTH

A Star Destroyer moves through space, releasing Imperial probe robots 
from its underside.  

One of these probes zooms toward the planet Hoth and lands on its ice-
covered surface.  An explosion marks the point of
impact.  

EXT. HOTH - METEORITE CRATER - SNOW PLAIN - DAY

A weird mechanical sound rises above the whining of the wind.  A 
strange probe robot, with several extended sensors, emerges from the 
smoke-shrouded crater.  The ominous mechanical probe floats across the 
snow plain and disappears into the distance.

EXT. PLAIN OF HOTH - DAY

A small figure gallops across the windswept ice slope.  The bundled 
rider is mounted on a large gray snow lizard, a Tauntaun.  Curving 
plumes of snow rise from beneath the speeding paws of the two-legged 
beast.

The rider gallops up a slope and reins his lizard to a stop.  Pulling 
off his protective goggles, Luke Skywalker notices something in the 
sky.  He takes a pair of electrobinoculars from his utility belt and 
through them sees smoke rising from where the probe robot has crashed.

The wind whips at Luke's fur-lined cap and he activates a comlink 
transmitter.  His Tauntaun shifts and moans nervously beneath him.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		Echo Three to Echo Seven.  Han, 
		old buddy, do you read me?

After a little static a familiar voice is heard.

				HAN
			(over comlink)
		Loud and clear, kid.  What's up?

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		Well, I finished my circle.  I 
		don't pick up any life readings.

				HAN
			(over comlink)
		There isn't enough life on this 
		ice cube to fill a space cruiser.  
		The sensors are placed, I'm going 
		back.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		Right.  I'll see you shortly.  
		There's a meteorite that hit the 
		ground near here.  I want to check 
		it out.  It won't take long.

Luke clicks off his transmitter and reins back on his nervous lizard.  
He pats the beast on the head to calm it.

				LUKE
		Hey, steady girl.  What's the 
		matter?  You smell something?

Luke takes a small device from his belt and starts to adjust it when 
suddenly a large shadow falls over him from behind.  He hears a 
monstrous howl and turns to see an eleven-foot-tall shape towering over 
him.  It is a Wampa Ice Creature, lunging at him ferociously.

				LUKE
		Aaargh!

Luke grabs for his pistol, but is hit flat in the face by a huge white 
claw.  He falls unconscious into the snow and in a moment the terrified 
screams of the Tauntaun are cut short by the horrible snap of a neck 
being broken.

The Wampa Ice Creature grabs Luke by one ankle and drags him away 
across the frozen plain.

EXT. HOTH - REBEL BASE ENTRANCE - DAY

A stalwart figure rides his Tauntaun up to the entrance of an enormous 
ice cave.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

Rebel troopers rush about unloading supplies and otherwise securing 
their new base.  The rider, Han Solo, swings off his lizard and pulls 
off his goggles.

He walks into the main hangar deck toward the Millennium Falcon, which 
is parked among several fighters.  Mechanics, R2 units, and various 
other droids hurry about.  Han stops at the Millennium Falcon where his 
Wookiee copilot, Chewbacca, is welding on a central lifter.  Chewie 
stops his work and lifts his face shield, growling an irritated 
greeting to his boss.

				HAN
		Chewie!

The Wookiee grumbles a reply.

				HAN
		All right, don't lose your temper.
		I'll come right back and give you 
		a hand.

Chewbacca puts his mask back on and returns to his welding as Han 
leaves.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

A makeshift command center has been set up in a blasted area of thick 
ice.  The low-ceilinged room is a beehive of activity. Controllers, 
troops, and droids move about setting up electronic equipment and 
monitoring radar signals.

General Rieekan straightens up from a console at Han's approach.

				RIEEKAN
		Solo?

				HAN
No sign of life out there, General.
The sensors are in place.  You'll 
know if anything comes around.

				RIEEKAN
		Commander Skywalker reported in yet?

				HAN
		No.  He's checking out a meteorite 
		that hit near him.

				RIEEKAN
			(indicates radar 
			 screen)
		With all the meteor activity in this
		system, it's going to be difficult 
		to spot approaching ships.

Taking a deep breath, Han blurts out what is on his mind.

				HAN
		General, I've got to leave.  I 
		can't stay anymore.

Princess Leia, standing at a console nearby, is dressed in a short 
white combat jacket and pants.  Her hair is braided across her head in 
a Nordic fashion.  She overhears their  conversation and seems somewhat 
distressed.

				RIEEKAN
		I'm sorry to hear that.

				HAN
		Well, there's a price on my head.
		If I don't pay off Jabba the Hut, 
		I'm a dead man.

				RIEEKAN
		A death mark's not an easy thing 
		to live with.  You're a good
		fighter, Solo.  I hate to lose you.

				HAN
		Thank you, General.

He turns to Leia as Rieekan moves away.

				HAN
			(with feeling)
		Well, Your Highness, I guess this 
		is it.

				LEIA
		That's right.

Leia is angry.  Han sees she has no warmth to offer him.  He shakes his 
head and adopts a sarcastic tone.

				HAN
			(cooly)
		Well, don't get all mushy on me.
		So long, Princess.

Han walks away into the quiet corridor adjoining the command center.  
Leia stews a moment, then hurries after him.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ICE CORRIDOR

				LEIA
		Han!

Han stops in the corridor and turns to face Leia.

				HAN
		Yes, Your Highnessness?

				LEIA
		I thought you decided to stay.

				HAN
		Well, the bounty hunter we ran 
		into on Ord Mantell changed my
		mind.  

				LEIA
		Han, we need you!

				HAN
		We?

				LEIA
		Yes.

				HAN
		Oh, what about you need?

				LEIA
			(mystified)
		I need?  I don't know what you're 
		talking about.

				HAN
			(shakes his head, 
			 fed up) 
		You probably don't.

				LEIA
		And what precisely am I supposed 
		to know?

				HAN
		Come on!  You want me to stay 
		because of the way you feel about
		me.

				LEIA
		Yes.  You're a great help to us.
		You're a natural leader...

				HAN
		No!  That's not it.  Come on.  
		Aahhh - uh huh!  Come on.

Leia stares at him, understanding, then laughs.

				LEIA
You're imagining things.

				HAN
		Am I?  Then why are you following 
		me?  Afraid I was going to leave
		without giving you a goodbye kiss?

				LEIA
		I'd just as soon kiss a Wookiee.

				HAN
		I can arrange that.  You could use 
		a good kiss!

Angrily, Han strides down the corridor as Leia stares after him.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ANOTHER ICE CORRIDOR

A familiar stream of beeps and whistles herald the approach of Artoo-
Detoo and See-Threepio, who appear around a corner and move along an 
ice wall toward the main hangar.

				THREEPIO
		Don't try to blame me.  I didn't 
		ask you to turn on the thermal 
		heater.  I merely commented that it 
		was freezing in the princess' 
		chamber.  But it's supposed to be 
		freezing.  How are we going to dry 
		out all her clothes?  I really don't 
		know.

Artoo beeps a stream of protesting whistles.

				THREEPIO
		Oh, switch off.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

The two robots stop at Han Solo's space freighter.  Han and Chewie are 
struggling with their central lifters.

				HAN
			(to Chewie)
		Why do you take this apart now? 
		I'm trying to get us out of here 
		and you pull both of these.

Chewie grumbles in irritation.

				THREEPIO
		Excuse me, sir.

				HAN
			(to Chewie)
		Put them back together right now.

				THREEPIO
		Might I have a word with you, 
		please?

				HAN
		What do you want?

				THREEPIO
		Well, it's Princess Leia, sir.
		She's been trying to get you on 
		the communicator.

				HAN
		I turned it off.  I don't want to 
		talk to her.

				THREEPIO
		Oh.  Well, Princess Leia is wondering 
		about Master Luke.  He hasn't come 
		back yet.  She doesn't know where he 
		is.

				HAN
		I don't know where he is.

				THREEPIO
		Nobody knows where he is.

				HAN
		What do you mean, "nobody knows"?

Han glances at the fading light at the entrance of the ice cave as 
night slowly begins to fall on the planet.

				THREEPIO
		Well, uh, you see...

Han jumps down off the lift, as Threepio follows him.

				HAN
		Deck Officer.  Deck Officer!

				THREEPIO
		Excuse me, sir.  Might I inqu...

Han abruptly puts his hand over Threepio's mouth as the deck officer 
approaches.

				DECK OFFICER
		Yes, sir?

				HAN
		Do you know where Commander 
		Skywalker is?

				DECK OFFICER
		I haven't seen him.  It's possible 
		he came in through the south entrance.

				HAN
		It's possible?  Why don't you go 
		find out?  It's getting dark out there.

				DECK OFFICER
		Yes, sir.

The deck officer leaves hurriedly, as Han takes his hand off Threepio's 
mouth.

				THREEPIO
		Excuse me, sir.  Might I inquire 
		what's going on?

				HAN
		Why not?

				THREEPIO
		Impossible man.  Come along, Artoo, 
		let's find Princess Leia.  Between 
		ourselves, I think Master Luke is 
		in considerable danger.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN ICE TUNNEL

The deck officer and his assistant hurry toward Han as he enters the 
tunnel.

				DECK OFFICER
		Sir, Commander Skywalker hasn't 
		come in through the south entrance.
		He might have forgotten to check in.

				HAN
		Not likely.  Are the speeders ready?

				DECK OFFICER
		Not yet.  We're having some trouble 
		adapting them to the cold.

				HAN
		Then we'll have to go out on 
		Tauntauns.

				DECK OFFICER
		Sir, the temperature's dropping too 
		rapidly.

				HAN
		That's right.  And my friends out 
		in it.

				ASSISTANT OFFICER
		I'll cover sector twelve.  Have 
		com-control set screen alpha.

Han pushes through the troops and mounts a Tauntaun.

				DECK OFFICER
		Your Tauntaun'll freeze before you 
		reach the first marker.

				HAN
		Then I'll see you in hell!

Han maneuvers his mount out of the cave and races into the dark bitter 
night.

EXT. HOTH - ICE GORGE - DUSK

The jagged face of a huge ice wall sits gloomily in the dim twilight of 
a Hoth day.  Luke hangs upside down, ankles frozen into icy 
stalactites, his extended arms within a foot of the snow floor.  One 
side of his face is covered in a dried mask of frozen blood.  He opens 
his eyes as a chilling moan of the hideous ice creature echoes off the 
gorge walls.  Luke pulls himself up, grabs hold of his ankles, and 
futilely tries to unfasten the throngs.

Exhausted, he drops back into his hanging position.  As he hangs there, 
he spies his lightsaber lying near a pile of his discarded gear, about 
three feet out of reach.

He focuses on the saber and, as his hand strains toward the weapon, he 
squeezes his eyes tight in concentration.

Just as the ice creature looms over Luke, the lightsaber jumps into 
Luke's hand.

The young warrior instantly ignites his sword, swinging up, and cuts 
himself loose from the ice.  He flops to the snow in a heap.  The 
startled creature moves back, his giant yellow eyes blinking.  Luke 
scrambles to his feet.  He swings his lightsaber and the beast screams 
in pain.

EXT. HOTH - ENTRANCE TO ICE GORGE - DUSK

Luke staggers out of the gorge into the dark and snowy twilight.  Weak 
and exhausted, he stumbles down a snow bank.

EXT. HOTH - SNOW PLAIN - DUSK

A small, lone figure riding a Tauntaun races through the hostile 
vastness of snow and cold.  As it runs, the Tauntaun's legs kick up 
large clouds of snow and ice into the snowy air.

EXT. HOTH - OUTSIDE ICE				 HANGAR - DUSK

Artoo stands in the falling snow, beeping worriedly.  Threepio moves 
stiffly over to him.

				THREEPIO
		You must come along now, Artoo.  
		There's really nothing more we can 
		do.  And my joints are freezing up.

Artoo beeps, long and low.

				THREEPIO
		Don't say thing like that!  Of 
		course we'll see Master Luke again.
		He'll be quite all right, you'll see.
			(to himself)
		Stupid little short-circuit.  He'll 
		be quite all right.

Threepio turns to go back inside the main hangar as Artoo mournfully 
keeps his vigil.

EXT. HOTH - SNOW DRIFT - DUSK

The wind is blowing quite strong now.  Luke struggles to stay upright, 
but a blast of freezing snow knocks him over.  He struggles to get up, 
but he can't.  The young warrior from Tatooine drags himself a couple 
of feet and then collapses.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK - ENTRANCE - NIGHT

Princess Leia stands inside the dark entrance to the Rebel base, 
waiting for a sign of the two Rebel heroes.  She shivers in the cold 
wind as, nearby, Chewie sits with his head in his hands.  In the 
background, Artoo and Threepio move through the doors.  

A Rebel lieutenant moves to Major Derlin, an officer keeping watch with 
the princess.

				LIEUTENANT
		Sir, all the patrols are in.
		There's still no contact from 
		Skywalker or Solo.

				THREEPIO
		Mistress Leia, Artoo says he's been 
		quite unable to pick up any signals, 
		although he does admit that his own 
		range is far too weak to abandon 
		all hope.

Leia nods an acknowledgment, but she is lost in thought.

				DERLIN
		Your Highness, there's nothing 
		more we can do tonight.  The shield 
		doors must be closed.

He turns to the lieutenant.

				DERLIN
		Close the doors.

				LIEUTENANT
		Yes, sir.

The lieutenant walks away.  Chewie lets out a long, mournful howl, 
somewhat like a coyote.  At the same moment, Artoo begins a complex 
series of efficient beeps.

				THREEPIO
		Artoo says the chances of survival 
		are seven hundred seventy-five...
		to one.

Leia stands praying to herself as the huge metal doors slam across the 
entrance of the ice cave.  The loud booms echo throughout the huge 
cavern.  Chewie lets out another suffering howl.

				THREEPIO
		Actually, Artoo has been known to 
		make mistakes... from time to time.
		Oh, dear, oh, dear.  Don't worry 
		about Master Luke.  I'm sure he'll 
		be all right.  He's quite clever, 
		you know... for a human being.

EXT. HOTH - SNOW DRIFT - DUSK

Luke lies face down in the snow, nearly unconscious.  Slowly he looks 
up and sees Ben Kenobi, barely visible through the blowing snow.  It is 
hard to tell if Kenobi is real or a hallucination.

				BEN
		Luke... Luke.

				LUKE
			(weakly)
		Ben?

				BEN
		You will go to the Dagobah system.

				LUKE
		Dagobah system?

				BEN
		There you will learn from Yoda, 
		the Jedi Master who instructed me.

The image of Ben fades, revealing a lone Tauntaun rider approaching 
from the windswept horizon.

				LUKE
			(groaning faintly)
		Ben... Ben.

Luke drops into unconsciousness.

Han pulls up and leaps off his mount.  He hurries to his snow-covered 
friend, cradling him in his arms.  Han's Tauntaun lets out a low, 
pitiful bellow.  But Han's concern is with Luke, and he shakes him 
urgently.

				HAN
		Luke!  Luke!  Don't do this, Luke.  
		Come on, give me a sign here.

Luke doesn't respond.  Han begins frantically rubbing and slapping 
Luke's unconscious face.  As he starts to lift the youth, Han hears a 
rasping sound behind him.  He turns, just in time to see his Tauntaun 
stagger and then fall over into the snow.

Han carries Luke to the moaning beast.  Then, with a final groan, the 
Tauntaun expires.

				HAN 
		Not much time.

He pushes Luke's inert form against the belly of the dead beast.

				LUKE
			(moaning)
		Ben... Ben...

				HAN
		Hang on, kid.

				LUKE
		Dagobah system...

Han ignites Luke's saber and cuts the beast from head to toe.  He 
quickly tosses it's steaming innards into the snow, then lifts Luke's 
inert form and stuffs him inside the carcass.

				HAN
			(reeling from the 
			 odor) 
		Whew...

				LUKE
		Dagobah...

				HAN
		This may smell bad, kid...

				LUKE
			(moaning)
		Yoda...

				HAN
		...but it will keep you warm... 
		til I get the shelter built.
			(struggling to get 
			 Luke inside the 
			 carcass) 
		Ooh... I thought they smelled bad 
		on the outside!

The wind has picked up considerably, making it difficult to move.  Han 
removes a pack from the dead creature's back, taking out a shelter 
container.  He begins to set up what can only be a pitiful protection 
against a bitter Hoth night.

EXT. HOTH - SNOWDRIFT - DAWN

Four snub-nosed armored snowspeeders race across the white landscape.

INT. SNOWSPEEDER COCKPIT

There is only one pilot, Zev, in the enclosed two-man craft.  He 
concentrates on the scopes which ring his cockpit.  He hears a low beep 
from one of his monitors.

				ZEV
			(into transmitter) 
		Echo Base... I've got something!  Not 
		much, but it could be a life form.

EXT. HOTH - SNOWDRIFT

The small craft banks and makes a slow arc, then races off in a new 
direction.

INT. SNOWSPEEDER - COCKPIT

The pilot switches over to a new transmitter.

				ZEV
			(into transmitter)
		This is Rogue Two.  this is Rogue 
		Two.  Captain Solo, so you copy?  
		Commander Skywalker, do you copy? 
		This is Rogue Two.

There is a sharp crackle of static, then a faint voice.

				HAN
			(filtered over 
			 Zev's receiver)
		Good morning.  Nice of you guys 
		to drop by.

				ZEV
			(switching transmitters) 
		Echo Base... this is Rogue Two.  I 
		found them.  Repeat, I found them.

EXT. HOTH - SNOWDRIFT - DAY

The small shelter Han set up is covered with snow on the windward side.  
A makeshift antenna rests gingerly on top the snowdrift.  Han spots 
Zev's snowspeeder approaching in the distance, and begins waving his 
arms frantically at the tiny craft.

INT. REBEL BASE - MEDICAL CENTER

Strange robot surgeons adjust a mass of electronic equipment.  A switch 
is thrown and a sudden blinding flash obscures Luke in a bacta tank 
filled with a thick, gelatinous slime.  He begins to thrash about, 
raving in delirium.

INT. REBEL BASE - MEDICAL CENTER - RECOVERY ROOM

Luke sits up in a recovery-room bed, weak but smiling.  His face shows 
terrible wounds from the Wampa's attack.  Threepio and Artoo enter the 
room.

				THREEPIO
		Master Luke, sir, it's so good 
		to see you fully functional again.

Artoo beeps his good wishes.

				THREEPIO
		Artoo expresses his relief, also.

Han and Chewie make their entrance.  The Wookiee growls a greeting.

				HAN
		How are you feeling, kid?  You 
		don't look so bad to me.  In 
		fact, you look strong enough to 
		pull the ears off a Gundark.

				LUKE
		Thanks to you.

				HAN
		That's two you owe me, junior.

Han turns as Leia enters the room.  He looks at her with a big, 
devilish grin.

				HAN
		Well your Worship, looks like 
		you managed to keep me around for
		a little while longer.

				LEIA
			(haughtily)
		I had nothing to do with it.  General 
		Rieekan thinks it's dangerous for 
		any ships to leave the system until 
		we've activated the energy shield.

				HAN
		That's a good story.  I think you 
		just can't bear to let a gorgeous 
		guy like me out of your sight.

				LEIA
		I don't know where you get your 
		delusions, laser brain.

Chewie is amused; he laughs in his manner.  Han, enjoying himself, 
regards Chewie good-humoredly.

				HAN
		Laugh it up, fuzzball.  But you 
		didn't see us alone in the south 
		passage.

Luke sparks to this; he looks at Leia.

				HAN
		She expressed her true feelings 
		for me.

Leia is flushed, eyes darting between Luke and Han.

				LEIA
		My...!  Why, you stuck up,... half-
		witted... scruffy-looking ...nerf-
		herder!

				HAN
		Who's scruffy-looking? 
			(to Luke) 
		I must have hit pretty close to 
		the mark to get her all riled up 
		like that, huh, kid?

Leia looks vulnerable for a moment, then the mask falls again, and she 
focuses on Luke.

				LEIA
		Why, I guess you don't know 
		everything about women yet?

With that she leans over and kisses Luke on the lips.  Then she turns 
on her heel and walks out, leaving everyone in the room slightly 
dumbstruck.  With some smugness, Luke puts his hands behind his head 
and grins.

Suddenly, in the distance, the muffled sound of an alarm is heard.

				ANNOUNCER
			(over loudspeaker)
		Headquarters personnel, report to 
		command center.

The voice repeats the order and Han, Chewie, Artoo, and Threepio hurry 
out of the room, bidding farewell to Luke.

				HAN
		Take it easy.

				THREEPIO
		Excuse us, please.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

Rieekan looks up grimly from a console screen.  He calls over to Leia 
and Han.

				RIEEKAN
		Princess... we have a visitor.

The group hurries over to Rieekan.

				RIEEKAN
		We've picked up something outside 
		the base in zone twelve, moving 
		east.

				SENIOR CONTROLLER
		It's metal.

				LEIA
		Then it couldn't be one of those 
		creatures that attacked Luke.

				HAN
		It could be a speeder, one of ours.

				SENIOR CONTROLLER
		No.  Wait - there's something very 
		weak coming through.

Threepio steps up to the control panel and listens intently to the 
strange signal.

				THREEPIO
		Sir, I am fluent in six million 
		forms of communication.  This signal 
		is not used by the Alliance.  It 
		could be an Imperial code.

The transmission ends in static.

				HAN
		It isn't friendly, whatever it is.  
		Come on, Chewie, let's check it out.

				RIEEKAN
		Send Rogues Ten and Eleven to 
		station three-eight.

EXT. HOTH - SNOW PLAIN - DAY

The dark probe robot moves past the smoldering ruins of station three-
eight and down a ridge toward the Rebel base.  It raises a large 
antenna from the top of its head and begins to send out a piercing 
signal.

The probe droid has spotted Chewbacca who, not thirty feet away, has 
popped his head over a snow bank.  Instantly, the probe robot swings 
around, its deadly ray ready to fire.  But before it can get a shot 
off, it is hit from behind by a laser bolt, and explodes in a million 
pieces.

Han Solo replaces his blaster in its holster and peers intently at the 
smoldering remains of the Imperial probe.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

Leia and Rieekan listen to Han on the comlink.

				HAN
			(over comlink)
		Afraid there's not much left.

				LEIA
			(into comlink)
		What was it?

				HAN
			(over comlink)
		Droid of some kind.  I didn't hit 
		it that hard.  It must have had a 
		self-destruct.

				LEIA
			(into comlink)
		An Imperial probe droid.

				HAN
			(over comlink)
		It's a good bet the Empire knows 
		we're here.

				RIEEKAN
		We'd better start the evacuation.

EXT. SPACE - IMPERIAL FLEET

Darth Vader's Star Destroyer, larger and more awesome than the five 
Imperial Star Destroyers that surround it, sits in the vastness of 
space.  The six huge ships are surrounded by a convoy of smaller 
spacecraft.  TIE fighters dart to and fro.

INT. DARTH VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE - MAIN CONTROL DECK

Controllers working the vast complex of electronic controls hear 
ominous approaching footsteps and look up from their controls.  The 
squat, evil-looking Admiral Ozzel and the young, powerfully built 
General Veers, who have been conferring near the front, also feel the 
approaching presence and turn toward it.  Darth Vader, Lord of the 
Sith, enters like a chill wind.  As Vader moves across the wide bridge, 
Captain Piett hurries up to Ozzel.

				PIETT
		Admiral.

				OZZEL
		Yes, Captain

				PIETT
		I think we've got something, sir.  
		The report is only a fragment from 
		a probe droid in the Hoth system, 
		but it's the best lead we've had.

				OZZEL
			(irritated) 
		We have thousands of probe droids 
		searching the galaxy.  I want proof, 
		not leads!

				PIETT
		The visuals indicate life readings.

				OZZEL
		It could mean anything.  If we 
		followed every lead...

				PIETT
		But, sir, the Hoth system is supposed 
		to be devoid of human forms.

Vader moves to a large screen showing an image of the Rebel snow base.  
Rebel speeders can be seen approaching the base in the distance.

				VADER
		You found something?

				PIETT
		Yes, my lord.

				VADER
			(studying the image 
			 on the console screen) 
		That's it.  The Rebels are there.

				OZZEL
		My lord, there are so many uncharted 
		settlements.  It could be smugglers, 
		it could be...

				VADER
		That is the system.  And I'm sure 
		Skywalker is with them.  Set your 
		course for the Hoth system.  General 
		Veers, prepare you men.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - TRANSPORT BAY

A captain issues instructions to two of his men at the entrance to the 
main transport bay.  Several Rebel transports behind them are being 
loaded by men carrying heavy boxes and moving quickly, but not in 
panic.

				REBEL CAPTAIN
		Groups seven and ten will stay 
		behind to fly the speeders.  As 
		soon as each transport is loaded, 
		evacuation control will give 
		clearance for immediate launch.

				REBEL FIGHTER
		Right, sir.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

Alarms sound.  Troops, ground crews, and droids rush to their alert 
stations.  Armored snowspeeders are lined up in attack formation near 
the main entrance.

In the midst of all this activity, Han does some frantic welding on the 
lifters of the Millennium Falcon.

Han finishes his work and hops down to the hangar floor.  He pulls out 
his comlink, all the while eyeing problematic lifters.

				HAN
			(into comlink, to 
			 Chewie)
		Okay, that's it.  Try it... Off! 
		Turn it off!  Turn it off!  Off!

Smoke rises from a minor explosion on the lifter.  Exasperated, Han 
surveys the new damage.

INT. REBEL BASE - MEDICAL CENTER

Luke dresses in readiness for the evacuation as his attending medical 
droid stands by.

				MEDICAL DROID
		Sir, it will take quite a while 
		to evacuate the T-forty- sevens.

				LUKE
		Well, forget the heavy equipment.
		There's plenty of time to get the 
		smaller modules on the transports.

				MEDICAL DROID
		Take care, sir.

				LUKE
		Thanks.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

Pilots, gunners, and R2 units scurry about.  Luke, pulling on his 
heavy-weather jacket, is headed toward a row of armored speeders.  He 
stops at the rear of the Millennium Falcon, where Han and Chewie are 
trying to repair the right lifter with even more haste than before.

				LUKE
		Chewie, take care of yourself, 
		okay?

As Luke pats Chewie on the arm, Chewie puts his arms around Luke and 
gives him a tight hug.  Han is discussing the lifter with a repair 
droid when he sees Luke.

				HAN
		Hi, kid.
			(to droid)
		There's got to be a reason for 
		it.  Check it at the other end.
		Wait a second.
			(to Luke)
		You all right?

				LUKE
		Yeah.

				HAN
		Be careful.

				LUKE
		You, too.

Luke smiles, then waves at his friend and walks on.  After a few steps, 
he stops and looks back.  Han glances up and the two exchange a silent 
communication, each wishing the other safety, happiness - many things, 
all difficult to verbalize.

INT. REBEL BASE - CONTROL ROOM.

Alarms sound throughout the hidden Rebel base.  In the control room, a 
controller urgently gestures for General Rieekan to check a computer 
scan.

				CONTROLLER
		General, there's a fleet of Star 
		Destroyers coming out of hyperspace 
		in sector four.

				RIEEKAN
		Reroute all power to the energy 
		shield.  We've got to hold them till 
		all transports are away.  Prepare 
		for ground assault.

Rieekan exits hurriedly.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - VADER'S CHAMBER - MEDITATION CUBICLE

The dark cubicle is illuminated by a single shaft of light which falls 
on the brooding Dark Lord as he sits on a raised meditation cube.  
General Veers enters the room and approaches the silent, unmoving 
Vader.  Although seemingly very sure of himself, Veers is still not 
bold enough to interrupt the meditating lord.  The younger general 
stands quietly at attention until the evil presence speaks.

				VADER
		What is it, General?

				VEERS
		My lord, the fleet has moves out 
		of light-speed.  Com-Scan has 
		detected an energy field protecting 
		an area around the sixth planet of 
		the Hoth system.  The field is 
		strong enough to deflect any 
		bombardment.

				VADER
			(angrily)
		The Rebels are alerted to our 
		presence.  Admiral Ozzel came out 
		of light-speed too close to the 
		system.

				VEERS
		He felt surprise was wiser...

				VADER
		He is as clumsy as he is stupid.
		General, prepare your troops for a 
		surface attack.

				VEERS
		Yes, my lord.

Veers turns smartly and leaves as Vader activates a large viewscreen 
showing the bridge of his mighty ship.  Admiral Ozzel appears on the 
viewscreen, standing slightly in front of Captain Piett.

				OZZEL
		Lord Vader, the fleet has moved 
		out of light-speed, and we're 
		preparing to... Aaagh!

				VADER
		You have failed me for the last 
		time, Admiral.  Captain Piett.

Piett steps forward, as the admiral moves away, slightly confused, 
touching his throat as it begins to constrict painfully.

				PIETT
		Yes, my lord.

				VADER
Make ready to land out troops beyond 
the energy shield and deploy the 
fleet so that nothing gets off that 
system.  You are in command now, 
Admiral Piett.

				PIETT
		Thank you, Lord Vader.

Piett's pleasure about his unexpected promotion is not an unmixed 
emotion.  He glances warily at the struggling Admiral Ozzel who, with a 
final choke, stumbles and falls in a lifeless heap before him.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

With a sense of urgency, Leia quickly briefs a group of pilots gathered 
in the center of the hangar.

				LEIA
		All troop carriers will assemble 
		at the north entrance.  The heavy 
		transport ships will leave as 
		soon as they're loaded.  Only two 
		fighter escorts per ship.  The 
		energy shield can only be opened 
		for a short time, so you'll have 
		to stay very close to your transports.

				HOBBIE
		Two fighters against a Star Destroyer?

				LEIA
		The ion cannon will fire several 
		shots to make sure that any enemy 
		ships will be out of your flight 
		path.  When you've gotten past the 
		energy shield, proceed directly to 
		the rendezvous point.  Understood?

				PILOTS
			(in unison)
		Right.  Okay.

				LEIA
		Good luck.

				DERLIN
		Okay.  Everyone to your stations.  
		Let's go!

The pilots hurry away.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH - DAY

Rebel troops carry heavy bazooka-type weapons and position them along 
the snow trench.  Men hurriedly respond to their officers' yelled 
orders and brace themselves against the rhythmic gusts of bitter-cold 
wind.

Other troops load power packs into a gun turret and swing its guns into 
position.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - POWER GENERATORS

Near the base power generators, troops rush to set up their heavy 
battle equipment.  Buzzing loudly, the generators send along, sparking 
fingers of energy into the bitter Hoth wind.

INT. REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

The long line of Rebel controllers is tense, as are Princess Leia and 
General Rieekan, who are trying very hard not to show any fear.

				RIEEKAN
		Their primary target will be the 
		power generators.  Prepare to 
		open the shield.

EXT. ICE PLAIN

The Rebel transport and two escort fighters begin their departure from 
the ice planet.

EXT. SPACE - IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER

A huge Imperial Star Destroyer rest against a sea of stars, far above 
the white surface of the planet Hoth.

INT. IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

An Imperial controller approaches his commander.

				CONTROLLER
		Sir, Rebel ships are coming into 
		our sector.

				CAPTAIN
		Good.  Our first catch of the day.

INT. REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

				WOMAN CONTROLLER
		Stand by, ion control... Fire!

EXT. REBEL BASE ICE CAVE - ION CANNON

The giant ball-shaped ion cannon rotates into position and blasts two 
red energy beams skyward.

EXT. SPACE - HOTH - REBEL TRANSPORT

The Rebel transport and its escort race away from the white planet, 
closely followed by the two red energy beams.

As the Rebel transport races toward the waiting Imperial Star 
Destroyer, it is overtaken by the two scarlet energy bolts.  The 
Imperial Star Destroyer is hit in the conning tower by the powerful 
bolts, which set up fiery explosions on its metal hull.

The big Star Destroyer veers, then spins wildly out of control.  As the 
Imperial ship careers into deep space, the Rebel transport races away 
to safety.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

Pilots, gunners, and troopers hurry to their stations and their 
vehicles.

				ANNOUNCER
			(over loudspeaker)
		The first transport is away.

Everyone cheers at the announcement, which echoes through the hangar.  
Luke turns and walks on, heading toward his snowspeeder.  His gunner, 
Dack, a fresh-faced, eager kid, is glad to see him.  They climb in.

				DACK
		Feeling all right, sir?

				LUKE
		Just like new, Dack.  How about 
		you?

				DACK
		Right now I feel like I could take 
		on the whole Empire myself.

				LUKE
			(quietly, strapping 
			 in)
		I know what you mean.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN

A thin horizon line cuts across the bleak landscape.  Small dot-size 
objects begin to appear on the horizon, moving in the direction of the 
Rebel base.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH

A Rebel officer lifts a pair of electrobinoculars to his eyes.  Through 
the lens he sees a very close view of a giant Imperial snow walker.  He 
adjusts the view which then zooms back to reveal three more of the 
ominous battle machines.  Small flashes of yellow fire billow from the 
guns of the lumbering snow walkers.

The officer lowers his binoculars as the regular rhythmic pounding 
begins to make the ground vibrate.  The pounding grows louder and is 
accompanied by a high-pitched, metallic rattling.  The officer speaks 
into his comlink.

				TRENCH OFFICER
		Echo Station Three-T-Eight.

INT. REBEL BASE - CORRIDOR

Pilots and gunners race to their waiting snowspeeders.  Ice and snow 
begin falling from the walls of the corridor, shaken by the pounding 
Imperial snow walker as they draw ever nearer.

				TRENCH OFFICER
			(over comlink) 
		We have spotted Imperial walkers!

				CONTROLLER
Imperial walkers on the north 
ridge.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH

The Rebel troops aim their weapons at the horizon as explosions erupt 
all around them.  They are nervous and their grip on their weapons 
tightens from the cold and from fear.

Behind the troops a dozen snowspeeders race through the sky.

INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

				LUKE
			(into comlink) 
		Echo station Five-Seven.  We're 
		on our way.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

The fleet of snowspeeders races above the ice field at full throttle.  
They accelerate away from the base and head toward the distant walkers.

INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

				LUKE
			(into comlink) 
		All right, boys, keep tight now.

				DACK
		Luke, I have no approach vector.  
		I'm not set.

				LUKE
		Steady, Dack.  Attack pattern 
		delta.  Go now!

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

The cannons mounted on the walker head fire at the speeders.  Other 
walkers loom in the background.  Two speeders race away past two of the 
enormous walkers and bank to the right.

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

				LUKE
		All right, I'm coming in.

He turns his speeder and heads directly at one of the walkers, flying 
toward its towering legs.  The horizon twists as the speeder banks 
between the legs.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		Hobbie, you still with me?

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

Two speeders race directly at the head of a walker, then split and fly 
past it.

Three other walkers march onward, firing all cannons.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOWTRENCH

Rebel troops fire on the approaching walkers, as the snow and ice 
explode all around them.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

A speeder banks through and away from the legs of a walker.  Two other 
speeders pass the first speeder from the opposite direction.  Other 
Rebel craft race just above the icy plain.

A giant walker head swivels and fires, striking a snowspeeder and 
sending it crashing in a ball of flames.

INT. IMPERIAL SNOW WALKER - COCKPIT

General Veers and two walker pilots keep a careful eye on the racing 
Rebel snowspeeders as they maneuver their lumbering war machine 
forward.

Luke's speeder banks in from the side of Veers's walker and heads 
straight for its viewport, blasting away.  An explosion hits the walker 
window, but dissipates, doing no harm.  The speeder roars up and over 
the impregnable war machine.

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

Luke looks back at the walker as it grows smaller in the distance.

				LUKE
		That armor's too strong for 
		blasters.

On the horizon, another walker moves up past Luke's cockpit window, 
twisting out of sight as Luke banks and starts another run.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		Rogue Group, use your harpoons 
		and tow cables.  Go for the legs.
		It might be our only chance of 
		stopping them.
			(to Dack)
		All right, stand by, Dack.

Dack is at the gunner's controls.

				DACK
		Luke, we've got a malfunction in 
		fire control.  I'll have to cut in 
		the auxiliary.

				LUKE
		Just hang on.  Hang on, Dack.  Get 
		ready to fire that tow cable.

Barely keeping his seat in the tumbling ship, Dack struggles to set up 
his harpoon gun.

Luke swings his speeder around and heads toward an oncoming walker.  
Laser bolts and flak fill the air, creating a deadly obstacle course 
for the tiny craft.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

Rogue Leader and another snowspeeder fly in tight formation toward the 
walker as explosions burst all around them.

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

After sustaining a heavy volley of fire, Luke turns around to see if 
Dack is all right.

				LUKE
		Dack?  Dack!

Dack is lost.  Blood streams down his forehead, which rests on his 
smoldering controls.  Out the back window, an Imperial walker recedes 
in the distance.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH AREA

Rebel troops fire the dishlike ray gun while explosions erupt around 
them.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

Two walkers lumber toward the Rebel base as a speeder between them 
explodes in a ball of flames.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH

The dislike ray gun is hit by a laser bolt and instantly explodes.

INT. IMPERIAL SNOW WALKER - COCKPIT

Through the cockpit window, Veers and his pilot can see the Rebel power 
generators in the distance.

A hologram of Darth Vader appears on a control panel screen.

				VEERS
		Yes, Lord Vader.  I've reached the 
		main power generator.  The shield 
		will be down in moments.  You may 
		start your landing.

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

				LUKE
			(into comlink) 
		Rogue Three.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

				WEDGE
			(into comlink) 
		Copy, Rogue Leader

				LUKE 
			(over comlink) 
		Wedge, I've lost my gunner.  You'll 
		have to make this shot.  I'll cover 
		for you.  Set your harpoon.  Follow 
		me on the next pass.

				WEDGE
			(into comlink) 
		Coming around, Rogue Leader.

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

				LUKE
			(into comlink) 
		Steady, Rogue Two

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

Wedge's speeder races through the legs of one of the monstrous walkers.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

				WEDGE
			(to gunner) 
		Activate harpoon.

Wedge's gunner reaches for a firing switch to activate the harpoon.  
The harpoon flashes out, and speeds toward the receding legs of the 
walker.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The harpoon hurtles toward the walker, In an instant it is embedded in 
one of the walker's legs.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

				WEDGE 
			(to gunner) 
		Good shot, Janson.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The speeder Rogue Three races around one of the giant walker's feet, 
trailing the cable behind it.  Continuing around the back foot, Rogue 
Three then circles the walker around the tail end.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

Wedge checks his controls and banks around the front of the walker.

				WEDGE
		One more pass.

				JANSON 
		Coming around.  Once more.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The speeder sweeps left to right in front of the giant legs, towing the 
cable behind it.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

				JANSON
		Once more.

Wedge swings the speeder between the legs of the giant walker.

				JANSON
		Cable out!  Let her go!

				WEDGE
		Detach cable.

EXT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE

The cable release on the back of the speeder snaps loose and the cable 
drops away.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

				JANSON
		Cable detached.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The speeder zooms away into the distance.  The tangled legs of the 
enormous war machine attempt a step, but as they do the giant Imperial 
walker begins to topple.  It teeters for a moment, and then crashes 
onto the icy ground, sending snow and metal pieces flying.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH

The troops in the trenches cheer at the sight of the crashing walker.

An officer gives a signal to his men and Rebel troops charge the fallen 
war machine.

				TRENCH OFFICER
		Come on!

The troops run toward the downed walker, followed by two Rebel speeders 
flying overhead.  Just as they reach the walker, it explodes, the 
impact throwing some of the men onto the frozen ground.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

Wedge lets out a triumphant yell, banking his speeder away from the 
fallen walker.

				WEDGE
			(into comlink) 
		Whooha!  That got him!

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

				LUKE
			(into comlink) 
		I see it, Wedge.  Good work.

INT. REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

Large chunks of ice tumble into the command center as Leia and General 
Rieekan monitor computer screens.

				RIEEKAN
		I don't think we can protect two 
		transports at a time.

				LEIA 
		It's risky, but we can't hold out 
		much longer.  We have no choice.

				RIEEKAN
			(into comlink) 
		Launch patrols.

				LEIA
			(to an aide) 
		Evacuate remaining ground staff.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR

Muffled distant explosions create widening cracks in the ice roof of 
the hangar.  Trying to ignore the noise and falling bits of snow, Han 
works on one of the Falcon's lifters while Chewie works on one of the 
wings.  Noticing Chewie attach a wrong part, Han grows impatient.

				HAN
		No, no!  No!  This one goes there, 
		that one goes there.  Right?

In another area of the hangar, Threepio watches as Artoo is raised up 
into Luke's X-wing fighter.

				THREEPIO
		Artoo, you take good care of 
		Master Luke now, understand?  And
		... do take good care of yourself.  
		Oh, dear, oh, dear.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The fierce battle on the vast snow plains of Hoth rages on.  The 
Imperial walkers continue their slow, steady assault on the Rebel base, 
firing lasers as they lumber ever onward.  In the snow trench, Rebel 
troops fire large bazookalike guns and dishlike ray guns as explosions 
erupt around them.  A gun tower is hit by a laser bolt and instantly 
explodes.  Another blast destroys a ray gun.

INT. IMPERIAL SNOW WALKER - COCKPIT

General Veers studies various readouts on his control panel.

				VEERS
		All troops will debark for ground 
		assault.  Prepare to target the 
		main generator.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

Luke's speeder and Rogue Two fly in formation, banking from right to 
left and flying above the erupting battlefield.  Flak bursts all around 
them.

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

Luke, glancing over, sees Rogue Two on his left.  His ship shudders as 
flak bursts nearby.

				LUKE
			(into comlink) 
		Rogue Two, are you all right?

INT. ZEV'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE TWO - COCKPIT

				ZEV
			(into comlink) 
		Yeah.  I'm with you, Rogue Leader.

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

				LUKE
			(into comlink) 
		We'll set harpoon.  I'll cover for you.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The two speeders race across the horizon toward the giant walkers.

INT. ZEV'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE TWO - COCKPIT

				ZEV
			(into comlink) 
		Coming around.

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

				LUKE
			(into comlink) 
		Watch that cross fire, boys.

INT. ZEV'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE TWO - COCKPIT

				ZEV
			(into comlink) 
		Set for position three.
			(to gunner) 
		Steady.

				LUKE
			(over comlink) 
		Stay tight and low.

EXT. ZEV'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE TWO

Luke's speeder moves in formation with Rogue Two, when suddenly Zev's 
speeder is hit by a laser bolt.  His ship bucks violently under the 
impact and the cockpit explodes in a ball of flame.

Spewing smoke, the speeder hurtles toward a looming walker.  Before 
they collide.  Rogue Two explodes in a million flaming pieces.

INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

Desperately, Luke works the controls of his flak-buffeted ship.  
Suddenly, the speeder is rocked by a huge explosion.  Luke struggles 
with the controls with a look of terror on his face.  The speeder fills 
with smoke, and electrical sparks jump about the cockpit.

				LUKE
			(into comlink) 
		Hobbie, I've been hit!

INT. REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

Apart from the distant thunder of laser blasts, the corridor is 
strangely quiet and empty.  Running footsteps echo through the freezing 
hallway, then Han appears.  Cracks have appeared in some of the walls 
and some pipes have broken, sending hot steam billowing into the 
underground hallways.  Han hurries into the command center.  It is a 
shambles, but some people are still at their posts.  As he enters, a 
gigantic cave-in almost obliterates the room.  He finds Leia and 
Threepio near one of the control boards.

				HAN
		You all right?

Leia nods.  She is surprised to see him.

				LEIA
		Why are you still here?

				HAN
		I heard the command center had 
		been hit.

				LEIA
		You got your clearance to leave.

				HAN
		Don't worry.  I'll leave.  First 
		I'm going to get you to your ship.

				THREEPIO
		Your Highness, we must take this 
		last transport.  It's our only hope.

				LEIA
			(to controller) 
		Send all troops in sector twelve 
		to the south slope to protect the 
		fighters.

A blast rocks the command center, throwing Threepio backward into Han's 
arms.

				ANNOUNCER
			(over loudspeaker) 
		Imperial troops have entered the 
		base.

				HAN
		Come on... that's it.

				LEIA
			(to head controller) 
		Give the evacuation code signal.  
		And get to your transports!

Leia looks exhausted.  Han grabs her and starts to lead her out.

As Han, Leia, and Threepio run out of the command center, the code 
signal can be heard echoing off the corridor walls.

				HEAD CONTROLLER
		K-one-zero... all troops disengage.

				THREEPIO
			(to Han and Leia) 
		Oh!  Wait for me!

EXT. BATTLEFIELD - SNOW TRENCH

Rebel troops retreat under the awesome Imperial onslaught.

				OFFICER
		Begin retreat!

				SECOND OFFICER
		Fall back!

Troops flee from the battle, the ground exploding around them.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

Three of the giant walkers, firing lasers, advance toward the Rebel 
headquarters.

EXT. HOTH - SNOW TRENCH

Continuing their retreat, the Rebels see the walkers looming ever 
nearer.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD - ICE PLAIN

On the battlefield, Luke watches as a walker foot rises and moves over 
him.  He looks up at the underbelly of the huge walker, passing 
overhead.

Running beneath the monstrous machine, Luke fires his harpoon gun at 
the walker's underside.  A thin cable follows the projectile from the 
gun.  The magnetic head and cable attach firmly to the metal hull.

Still running under the walker, Luke attaches the cable drum to his 
belt buckle.  Soon he is pulled up the cable and hangs dangling 
underneath the walker.

The walker's giant feet continue to pound onward across the frozen 
snow.  Stray laser bolts whistle by Luke as he climbs up the cable to 
the walker's hull, reaching a small hatch.  Hanging precariously, Luke 
cuts the solid metal hatch with his laser sword.

He takes a landmine from around his neck and throws it inside the 
Imperial machine.  Quickly, Luke starts down the cable and crashes onto 
the icy ground far below.  He lies unconscious as a giant rear leg 
passes by - and just misses him.

The giant walker stops in mid-step.  A muffled explosion comes from 
within - and then the walker's mechanical insides  are spewed out every 
conceivable opening.  The machine sits dead in its tracks, smoking like 
a locomotive on stilts.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

Veers's walker continues to advance toward the Rebel base.  The 
smoldering walker that Luke exploded stands smoking just to the right 
of Veers's path.

INT. IMPERIAL SNOW WALKER - COCKPIT

Inside his walker, General Veers prepares to fire on the Rebel power 
generators.

				VEERS
		Distance to power generators?

				PILOT
		One-seven, decimal two-eight.

Veers reaches for the electrorangefinder and lines up the main 
generator.

				VEERS
		Target.  Maximum fire power.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The Rebel troops continue their desperate retreat, pushed back by the 
relentless Imperial assault.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ICE CORRIDORS

With Threepio lagging behind, Han and Leia race through the crumbling 
ice corridors.  Suddenly, there is an explosion.  Han turns, grabs the 
princess, and pulls her to the wall as a tremendous cave-in blacks 
their path.

He takes the comlink from his pocket.

				HAN 
			(into comlink) 
		Transport, this is Solo.  Better 
		take off - I can't get to you.  
		I'll get the princess out on the 
		Falcon.

Han and Leia turn and race down the corridor.

				THREEPIO
		But... but... but... where are 
		you going?  Uh... come back!!

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

Imperial troops have reached the base.  As they push through the 
blocked passageway, Darth Vader strides behind them.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ICE CORRIDOR

Han and Leia run toward the entrance of the main hangar where the 
Millennium Falcon is docked.  Threepio still lags behind.

				THREEPIO
		Wait!  Wait for me!  Wait!  Stop!

The door to the hangar closes in his face.

				THREEPIO
			(exasperated) 
		How typical.

Quickly, the door reopens as Han reaches out and pulls the golden droid 
through.

				HAN
		Come on.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR

Chewie paces under the shelter of the Millennium Falcon's landing gear.  
The giant Wookiee pats the underbelly of his beloved ship and barks a 
few reassuring words.  As he searches worriedly for his captain, 
something at last catches his eye.

Chewie lets out a relieved shriek at seeing Han and Leia running toward 
the ship.  The Wookiee runs out into the falling ice, lets out a howl, 
then runs up the ship's ramp.  Han and Leia run up the ramp after him, 
closely followed by Threepio.

				HAN
		Hurry up, goldenrod, or you're 
		going to be a permanent resident!

				THREEPIO
		Wait!  Wait!

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ICE CORRIDOR

Imperial troops run through the base corridors.  Vader surveys the 
place.  A huge chunk falls, almost hitting him, but  he calmly, 
purposefully, continues around it.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGER - MILLENNIUM FALCON

A distant, huge, explosion rocks the hangar deck.  Ice cakes come 
crashing down on the Millennium Falcon.

INT. MAIN HANGAR - MILLENNIUM FALCON - MAIN HOLD

Han, standing before a control panel, is busy flipping switches as 
Chewie watches a troublesome gauge.  A worried Leia observes their 
efforts.

				HAN
			(to Chewie)
		How's this?

The Wookiee barks a negative reply.

				LEIA
		Would it helped if I got out and 
		pushed?

				HAN
		It might.

Threepio clanks into the hold.

				THREEPIO
		Captain Solo, Captain Solo... sir, 
		might I suggest that you...

Han gives the gold robot a devastating look.

				THREEPIO
		It can wait.

INT. MAIN HANGAR - MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

They move to the cockpit where Han flips some more switches.  Leia 
watches him, impatient, disbelieving.

				LEIA
		This bucket of bolts is never going 
		to get us past that blockade.

				HAN
		This baby's got a few surprises 
		left in her, sweetheart.

Han and Leia look out the cockpit window and see a squad of 
stormtroopers rushing into the far side of the hangar.

Quickly, Han straps himself into the pilot's seat and Leia into the 
navigator's chair.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR

Stormtroopers hurriedly set up a large bazookalike weapon.  Behind them 
the giant hangar doors open slowly.

EXT. MAIN HANGAR - MILLENNIUM FALCON

A laser gun appears on the Falcon and swings around to aim at the 
Imperial troops.

The stormtroopers, preparing to fire their bazooka cannon, are hit by 
the Falcon's fire and are thrown about in all directions.

INT. MAIN HANGAR - MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Chewie rushes into the cockpit.

				HAN
		Come on!  Come on!  Switch over.
		Let's hope we don't have a burnout.

A laser hits the window near Chewie as he is settling into his chair.  
Letting out a loud whelp, Chewie quickly pulls back on the controls and 
the first stage of engine fire can be heard.  Han flashes a big grin at 
Leia.

				HAN
		See?

				LEIA
		Someday you're going to be wrong, 
		and I hope I'm there to see it.

Han looks at Chewie.

				HAN
		Punch it!

The roar of the Falcon's main engines blasts out everything as the ice-
cave wall rushes by outside the cockpit window.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR

More stormtroopers run into the hangar, closely followed by Vader.  
Hearing the loud roar of the Millennium Falcon's engines, Vader looks 
toward the main hangar doors just in time to see the Falcon lift up and 
disappear outside the cave.

EXT. HOTH - ICE SLOPE - DAY

Luke and two other pilots look up as the Millennium Falcon races above 
them, flying very close to the ground.

The three pilots turn then, and trudge onward toward their X-wing 
fighters, each going to his own ship.  Luke waves farewell, then heads 
toward his own fighter.  

Artoo, seated on his cubbyhole, chirps an excited greeting as Luke 
climbs aboard the spacecraft.

				LUKE
		Artoo!  Get her ready for takeoff.

From his ship, Luke sees Wedge in his own X-wing, preparing for 
takeoff.

				WEDGE
		Good luck, Luke.  See you at 
		the rendezvous.

Luke smiles and nods at Wedge, then lowers himself into the cockpit of 
his X-wing while Artoo waits in the cubbyhole, beeping impatiently.

				LUKE
		Don't worry, Artoo.  We're going, 
		we're going.

The canopy over the X-wing lowers and snaps shut.

EXT. SPACE -  LUKE'S X-WING

Luke's fighter, its wings closed, speeds away from the icy planet.  
Soon it disappears into the stars.

INT.  LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke, looking thoughtful, suddenly makes a decision.  He flips several 
switches.  The stars shift as he takes his fighter into a steep turn.  
The X-wing banks sharply and flies away in a new direction.

The monitor screen on Luke's control panel prints out a question from 
the concerned Artoo.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		There's nothing wrong, Artoo.
		I'm just setting a new course.

Artoo beeps once again.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		We're not going to regroup with 
		the others.

Artoo begins a protest, whistling an unbelieving, "What?!"

Luke reads Artoo's exclamation on his control panel.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		We're going to the Dagobah system.

Luke checks his readouts and makes a few adjustments.  He rides along 
with only the soft hum of the instruments to break the silence.  
Finally, Artoo chirps up.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		Yes, Artoo?

Artoo utters a soft, carefully phrased steam of whistles.

				LUKE
			(into comlink, chuckling)
		That's all right.  I'd like to 
		keep it on manual control for a 
		while.

The little droid lets out a defeated whimper.  Luke smiles, and 
continues on his course.

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON

The Millennium Falcon speeds away from Hoth, closely followed by one 
huge Star Destroyer and four tiny TIE fighters.

As it is pursued, the Falcon races toward two very bright star-sized 
objects.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Inside the cockpit, Chewie lets out a loud howl.  Han checks as the 
ship is buffeted by exploding flak.  He appears to be doing six things 
at once.

				HAN
			(harried)
		I saw them!  I saw them!

				LEIA
		Saw what?

				HAN
		Star Destroyers, two of them, 
		coming right at us.

Threepio bumps and bangs his way into the cockpit.

				THREEPIO
		Sir, sir!  Might I suggest...

				HAN
			(to Leia)
		Shut him up or shut him down!
			(to Chewie)
		Check the deflector shield!

Chewie barks a reply as he readjusts an overhead switch.

				HAN
		Oh, great.  Well, we can still 
		outmaneuver them.

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - STAR DESTROYERS

The Millennium Falcon races toward one of the huge oncoming Star 
Destroyers.  Suddenly, the Falcon starts into a deep dive straight 
down, closely followed by four TIE fighters.  The underside of the Star 
Destroyer continues on a collision course with two oncoming Star 
Destroyers.  Slowly, it starts to veer to the left.

INT. STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE
Out the front window, the two approaching Star Destroyers can be seen 
veering to the left.

				IMPERIAL OFFICER
		Take evasive action!

Alarms sound all over the huge ship.  The two other Star Destroyers get 
closer, one of them moving over the bridge so close that it makes 
brushing contact with it.

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - TIE FIGHTERS

The Millennium Falcon races away from the colliding Star Destroyers, 
still followed by four TIE fighters.  Laser bolts spark the pitch-black 
skies.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Things have calmed down a bit, but the race isn't over yet.  Chewie 
barks at Han.  Leia is still trying to recover from the steep dive.  
The ship is buffeted by laser blasts.

				HAN
		Prepare to make the jump to light-
		speed.

				THREEPIO
		But, sir!

The buffeting of lasers becomes louder and stronger.

				LEIA
		They're getting closer!

				HAN
			(with a gleam in his 
			 eye)
		Oh yeah?  Watch this.

Expectantly, they look out the cockpit window as stars do not go into 
hyperspace, but just sit there.

Han and Chewie look at each other and are thrown into an acute state of 
concern.

				LEIA
		Watch what?

Han tries again.  Still nothing.

				HAN
		I think we're in trouble.

				THREEPIO
		If I may say so, sir, I noticed 
		earlier that the hyperdrive 
		motivator has been damaged.  It's 
		impossible to go to light-speed!

				HAN
		We're in trouble!

The explosions become heavier.

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - TIE FIGHTERS - STAR DESTROYER

The Falcon races into the starry vastness, followed by the four 
Imperial TIE fighters and an Imperial Star Destroyer.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Stars race by as flak bursts outside the Falcon's window.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD

Han works furiously at some control panels while giving various orders 
to Chewie.

				HAN
		Horizontal boosters...!
			(Chewie barks)
		Alluvial dampers...!  Well that's 
		not it.
			(Chewie barks)
		Bring me the hydrospanners!

Chewie hurries over to the pit and places the tools on the edge.

				HAN
		I don't know how we're going to 
		get out of this one.

Suddenly, a loud thump hits the side of the Falcon, causing it to lurch 
radically.  Chewie barks.  The tools fall into the pit on top of Han.

				HAN
		Oww!  Chewie!

More turbulence rocks the ship.

				HAN
		That was no laser blast!  Something 
		hit us.

				LEIA
			(over comlink)
		Han, get up here!

				HAN
		Come on, Chewie!

Han climbs out of the hold like a shot.  Both he and Chewie run out of 
the hold and toward the cockpit.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Out the front cockpit window, they see hundreds of asteroids racing by.

				LEIA
		Asteroids!

Han changes places with Leia who has been at the controls, and Chewie 
gets into his chair.  Han works his controls as a chunk of rock crosses 
in front of the ship.

				HAN
		Oh, no!  Chewie, set two-seven-
		one.

				LEIA
		What are you doing?  You're not 
		actually going into an asteroid 
		field?

				HAN
		They'd be crazy to follow us, 
		wouldn't they?

Another asteroid thumps against the ship and Leia winces at the jolt.

				LEIA
		You don't have to do this to 
		impress me.

				THREEPIO
		Sir, the possibility of successfully 
		navigating an asteroid field is 
		approximately three thousand, seven 
		hundred and twenty to one.

				HAN
		Never tell me the odds!

EXT. ASTEROID BELT - MILLENNIUM FALCON

The Falcon turns into the asteroid storm and as the ship completes its 
turn, asteroids start coming straight at the cockpit windows.

A large asteroid tumbles away from the Falcon's path at top speed.  
Several smaller asteroids crash into the big one, creating small 
explosions on its surface.  Other asteroids of all sizes pass by in 
every direction, some colliding and exploding.  The tiny Millennium 
Falcon veers around the big asteroid and races past it through the rain 
of rocks, followed by four TIE fighters, which bob and weave around the 
asteroids.

One of the pursuing TIE fighters connects with an asteroid and 
explodes.  The other fighters are pelted with a steady stream of 
smaller explosions.

Two huge asteroids tumble toward the Millennium Falcon, which quickly 
banks around both of them.  The three TIE fighters follow in hot 
pursuit until one of the fighters scrapes an asteroid and tumbles out 
of control into deep space.

EXT. SPACE - STAR DESTROYER - ASTEROID BELT

The massive Star Destroyer blasts oncoming asteroids as it follows the 
Falcon.  Smaller asteroids explode across its vast surface.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - TIE FIGHTERS - ASTEROID BELT

The Falcon twists on its side as it races around an oncoming asteroid.  
Two TIE fighters follow in the distance, coming from either side.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Asteroids race by the cockpit window as Han pilots his trusty craft 
through the dangerous field.

Looking out the cockpit window, the Falcon crew sees a big asteroid 
drop past the window, narrowly missing their ship.

Chewie barks in terror as a slightly smaller asteroid comes especially 
close - to close - and bounces off the Falcon with a loud crunch.  
Threepio's hands cover his eyes.  He manages a short peek at the 
cockpit window.  Princess Leia sits stone-faced, staring at the action.  
Han gives her a quick look.

				HAN
		You said you wanted to be around 
		when I made a mistake; well, this 
		could be it, sweetheart.

				LEIA
		I take it back.  We're going to 
		get pulverized if we stay out here 
		much longer.

The group watches as more asteroids race by outside the window.

				HAN
		I'm not going to argue with that.

				THREEPIO
		Pulverized?

				HAN
		I'm going in closer to one of 
		those big ones.

				LEIA
		Closer?

				THREEPIO
		Closer?!

Chewbacca barks the same word, only louder.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - ASTEROID BELT

The Millennium Falcon dives toward the surface of one of the moon-sized 
asteroids.  There is a continued display of explosions against the 
starry void as smaller asteroids collide with larger chunks of rock.  
The two remaining TIE fighters follow the Falcon to the large asteroid.  
The Falcon skims the surface of the giant asteroid as, all the while, 
small asteroids explode on the surface of the ship.

The TIE fighters approach the Falcon, but a giant asteroid hurtles 
directly into their path.  As the asteroid continues on its way, it 
leaves remains of the two exploded TIE fighters to tumble into deep 
space.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Rattled by the violent rocking of the starship, Threepio is nearly in 
hysterics.

				THREEPIO
		Oh, this is suicide!

Han notices something on his main scope and nudges his faithful 
Wookiee, pointing.

				HAN
		There.  That looks pretty good.

				LEIA
		What looks pretty good?

				HAN
		Yeah.  That'll do nicely.

				THREEPIO
			(to Leia)
		Excuse me, ma'am, but where are 
		we going?

Out the cockpit window, they see that they are skimming the surface of 
the enormous asteroid and nearing a large crater.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GIANT ASTEROID CRATER

The Millennium Falcon dives into the huge crater and disappears.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

				LEIA
		I hope you know what you're doing.

				HAN
		Yeah, me too.

INT. GIANT ASTEROID CRATER

The Falcon races down into the crater.  The walls are barely visible as 
the ship speed through the tunnellike opening.  A small cave appears on 
one side of the crater, and the Falcon turns, slows, and scoots into 
it.

EXT. SPACE -  LUKE'S X-WING

The tiny X-wing speeds toward the cloud cover of Dagobah.  Artoo, 
riding on the back of the fighter, turns his head back and forth with 
some anxiety.

INT.  LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke watches Artoo's words as they are translated and screened on the 
computer scope.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		Yes, that's it.  Dagobah.

Artoo beeps a hopeful inquiry.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		No, I'm not going to change my 
		mind about this.
			(getting a little nervous)
		I'm not picking up any cities or
		technology.  Massive life-form 
		readings, though.  There's something
		alive down there...

Artoo beeps, this time a slightly worried question.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		Yes, I'm sure it's perfectly safe 
		for droids.

EXT. SPACE - DAGOBAH -  LUKE'S X-WING

The X-wing continues its flight through the twilight above the cloud-
covered planet.

INT.  LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke sees the cloud race by as he takes his craft closer to the planet.  
He must operate his controls carefully since the cloud cover has 
completely obscured his vision.  An alarm buzzes in the background, 
Artoo beeps and whistles frantically.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		I know, I know!  All the scopes are 
		dead.  I can't see a thing!  Just 
		hang on, I'm going to start the 
		landing cycle...

The blast of the retrorockets is deafening, drowning out Artoo's 
electronic squeals.  Suddenly, there is a cracking sound as if limbs 
were being broken off trees and then a tremendous jolt as the 
spacecraft stops.  Luke pulls a switch and his canopy pops open.

EXT. DAGOBAH - DUSK

The mist-shrouded X-wing fighter is almost invisible in the thick fog.  
Luke climbs out onto the long nose of the spacecraft as Artoo pops out 
of his cubbyhole on the back.  The young warrior surveys the fog, which 
is barely pierced by the ship's landing lights.  About all he can make 
out are some giant, twisted trees nearby.  Artoo whistles anxiously.

				LUKE
		No, Artoo, you stay put.  I'll 
		have a look around.

Artoo lets out a short beep.  As Luke moves along the nose, Artoo loses 
his balance and disappears with a splash into the boggy lake.

				LUKE
		Artoo?

Luke kneels and leans over the plane looking for Artoo, but the water 
is still and reveals no sign of the little droid.

				LUKE
		Artoo!  Where are you?

A small periscope breaks the surface of the water and a gurgly beep is 
heard.  The periscope starts to move to shore.  Relieved, Luke starts 
running along the nose of the fighter to its tip.

				LUKE
		Artoo!  You be more careful.

The outline of the shore is now more than ten feet away.

Luke jumps off the plane into the water, scrambles up to the shore, and 
turns to look for Artoo.  The periscope still steadily moves toward 
shore.

				LUKE
		Artoo - that way!

Suddenly, through the thick fog layer, a dark shape appears, moving 
toward the little droid.  The dark, sinuous bog beast dives beneath the 
swampy water, making a loud clunk against Artoo's metal hull.  The 
droid disappears from sight, uttering a pathetic electronic scream.

Holding his ignited lightsaber before him, Luke wades a few feet into 
the murky pool, looking for any sign of his little friend.

				LUKE
		Artoo!

The black surface is still as death itself... until a few bubbles begin 
to appear.  Then, phheewaat!! The runt-size robot is spit out of the 
water, makes a graceful arc, and comes crashing down into a patch of 
soft gray moss.

				LUKE
		Oh, no!  Are you all right?  Come 
		on.  You're lucky you don't taste 
		very good.  Anything broken?

Luke helps Artoo to his feet and begins wiping the mud and roots from 
his round metal body.  Artoo responds with feeble, soggy beeps.

				LUKE
		If you're saying coming here was 
		a bad idea, I'm beginning to agree 
		with you.  Oh, Artoo, what are we 
		doing here?  It's like... something 
		out of a dream, or, I don't know.  
		Maybe I'm just going crazy.

As Luke glances around at the spooky swamp jungle that surrounds him, 
Artoo ejects a stream of muddy water from one of his cranial ports.

EXT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - VADER'S CHAMBER

Admiral Piett hesitates in the entryway to Vader's private cubicle.

After a moment, he steps into the room and pauses at the surprising 
sight before him.

Darth Vader, his back turned, is silhouetted in the gloom on the far 
side of the chamber.  A black, insectlike droid attends him.  Among the 
various apparatuses surrounding them, a respirator tube now retracts 
from Vader's uncovered head.  The head is bald with a mass of ugly scar 
tissue covering it.  The black droid then lowers the mask and helmet 
onto Vader's head.  When it is in place, the Dark Lord turns to face 
Piett.

				VADER
		Yes, Admiral?

				PIETT
Our ships have sighted the 
Millennium Falcon, lord.  But... 
it has entered an asteroid field 
and we cannot risk...

				VADER
			(interrupting)
		Asteroids do not concern me, 
		Admiral.  I want that ship and 
		not excuses.

				PIETT
		Yes, lord.

EXT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON

The pirate starship rests in a dark, dripping asteroid cave.  It is so 
dark that the cave's exact dimensions are impossible to determine.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han and Chewie busily shut down the engine and all electronic systems.  
Threepio and Leia watch worriedly.

				HAN
		I'm going to shut down everything 
		but the emergency power systems.  

				THREEPIO
		Sir, I'm almost afraid to ask, 
		but... does that include shutting 
		me down, too?

Chewie barks "yes".  But Han thinks otherwise.

				HAN
		No, I need you to talk to the 
		Falcon, find out what's wrong with 
		the hyperdrive.

Suddenly, the ship lurches, causing all the loose items in the cockpit 
to go flying.  Chewie howls.

				THREEPIO
		Sir, it's quite possible this 
		asteroid is not entirely stable.

				HAN
		Not entirely stable?  I'm glad you're 
		here to tell us these things.  Chewie, 
		take the professor in the back and 
		plug him into the hyperdrive.

				THREEPIO
		Oh!  Sometimes I just don't 
		understand human behavior.  After 
		all, I'm only trying to do my job 
		in the most...

The sliding door closes behind the indignant Threepio as Chewie and he 
move back to the hold.  Suddenly, the ship lurches again, throwing Leia 
across the cabin into Han's arms.  Then, abruptly, the motion stops as 
suddenly as it started.  With some surprise, Han and Leia realize they 
are in each other's arms.

				LEIA
		Let go.

				HAN
		Sshh!

				LEIA
		Let go, please.

Leia flushes, averting her eyes.  She's not exactly fighting to get 
free.  But, of course, Han blows it...

				HAN
		Don't get excited.

The anger rises in Leia.

				LEIA
		Captain, being held by you isn't 
		quite enough to get me excited.

				HAN
		Sorry, sweetheart.  We haven't 
		got time for anything else.

Han grins quickly wickedly at Leia as he turns and exits through the 
door.  Leia's confused emotions show clearly on her lovely face.

EXT. DAGOBAH - BOG CLEARING - DUSK

The mist has dispersed a bit, but it is still a very gloomy-looking 
swamp.

Luke pulls an equipment box from the shore to the clearing.  He ignites 
a little fusion furnace and warms his hands before it.  Taking a power 
cable, he plugs it into Artoo's noselike socket.

				LUKE
		Ready for some power?  Okay.  
		Let's see now.  Put that in 
		there.  There you go.

The droid whistles his appreciation.  Luke then opens a container of 
processed food and sits before the thermal heater.

				LUKE
			(sighs)
		Now all I have to do is find this 
		Yoda... if he even exists.

Nervously, he looks around at the foreboding jungle.

				LUKE
		Still... there's something familiar 
		about this place.  I feel like... 
		I don't know...

				STRANGE VOICE
		Feel like what?

Luke jumps out of his skin.  Artoo screeches in terror.  The young 
warrior grabs for his lightsaber as he spins around, looking for the 
speaker.  Mysteriously standing right in front of Luke is a strange, 
bluish creature, not more than two feet tall.  The wizened little thing 
is dressed in rags.  It motions toward Luke's sword.

				LUKE
			(looking at the 
			 creature)
		Like we're being watched!

				CREATURE
		Away with your weapon!  I mean 
		you no harm.

After some hesitation, Luke puts away his weapon, although he really 
doesn't understand why.  Artoo watches with interest.

				CREATURE
		I am wondering, why are you here?

				LUKE
		I'm looking for someone.

				CREATURE
		Looking?  Found someone, you have, 
		I would say, hmmm?

The little creature laughs.

				LUKE
			(Trying to keep from 
			 smiling)
		Right.

				CREATURE
		Help you I can.  Yes, mmmm.

				LUKE
		I don't think so.  I'm looking 
		for a great warrior.

				CREATURE
		Ahhh!  A great warrior.
			(laughs and shakes 
			 his head)
		Wars not make one great.

With the aid of a walking stick, the tiny stranger moves over to one of 
the cases of supplies.  He begins to rummage around.

Artoo moves to the edge of the case - standing almost eye level to the 
creature who is carelessly handling the supplies - and squeaks his 
disapproval.

Their tiny visitor pick up the container of food Luke was eating from 
and takes a bite.

				LUKE
		Put that down.  Hey!  That's my 
		dinner!

The creature spits out the bite he has taken.  He makes a face.

				CREATURE
		How you get so big, eating food 
		of this kind?

He flips the container in Luke's direction and reaches into one of 
Luke's supply cases.

				LUKE
		Listen, friend, we didn't mean to 
		land in that puddle, and if we 
		could get our ship out, we would, 
		but we can't, so why don't you just...

				CREATURE
			(teasing)
		Aww, cannot get your ship out?

The creature spots something of interest in Luke's case.  Luke loses 
patience and grabs the case away.  The creature retains his prize - a 
tiny power lamp - and examines it with delight.

				LUKE
		Hey, you could have broken this.
		Don't do that.  Ohhh... you're 
		making a mess.  Hey, give me that!

				CREATURE
			(retreating with 
			 the lamp)
		Mine!  Or I will help you not.

Clutching its treasure, the creature backs away from Luke, drawing 
closer to Artoo.  As Luke and the creature argue, one of Artoo's little 
arms slowly moves out toward the power lamp, completely unnoticed by 
the creature.

				LUKE
		I don't want your help.  I want 
		my lamp back.  I'll need it to 
		get out of this slimy mudhole.

				CREATURE
		Mudhole?  Slimy?  My home this is.

Artoo grabs hold of the lamp and the two little figures are immediately 
engaged in a tug-of-war over it.

Artoo beeps a few angry, "Give me thats."

				CREATURE
		Ah, ah, ah!

				LUKE
		Oh, Artoo, let him have it!

				CREATURE
		Mine!  Mine!

				LUKE
		Artoo!

				CREATURE
		Mine!

The creature lets go with one hand and pokes Artoo lightly with one 
finger.  Artoo reacts with a startled squeal, and lets go.

				CREATURE
		Mine!

				LUKE
			(fed up)
		Now will you move along, little 
		fella?  We're got a lot of work 
		to do.

				CREATURE
		No!  No, no!  Stay and help you, 
		I will.
			(laughs)
		Find your friend, hmm?

				LUKE
		I'm not looking for a friend. 
		I'm looking for a Jedi Master.

				CREATURE
		Oohhh.  Jedi Master.  Yoda.  You 
		seek Yoda.

				LUKE
		You know him?

				CREATURE
		Mmm.  Take you to him, I will.
			(laughs)
		Yes, yes.  But now, we must eat.
		Come.  Good food.  Come.

With that, the creature scurries out of the clearing, laughing merrily.  
Luke stares after him.  All he sees is the faint light from the small 
power lamp moving through the fog.  Luke makes his decision and starts 
after the creature.

				CREATURE
			(in the distance)
		Come, come.

Artoo, very upset, whistles a blue streak of protest.

				LUKE
		Stay here and watch after the 
		camp, Artoo.

Artoo beeps even more frantically.  But as Luke disappears from view, 
the worried little droid grows quieter, and utters a soft electronic 
sigh.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - MAIN HOLD AREA

Threepio whistles and beeps a strange dialect into the control panel in 
front of him.  The control panel whistles back a few mystifying beeps.

				THREEPIO
		Oh, where is Artoo when I need 
		him?

Han enters the hold area and kneels on the floor near the control box.

				THREEPIO
		Sir, I don't know where your ship 
		learned to communicate, but it 
		has the most peculiar dialect.  I 
		believe, sir, it says that the 
		power coupling on the negative 
		axis has been polarized.  I'm 
		afraid you'll have to replace it.

				HAN
		Well, of course I'll have to replace 
		it.

He hands a wire coil up to Chewie who is working near the ceiling.

				HAN
		Here!  And Chewie...

Chewie brings his head back through the trap door in the ceiling and 
whines.  Han glances back at Threepio, then speaks quietly to Chewie so 
only he can hear.

				HAN
			(continuing)
		... I think we'd better replace 
		the negative power coupling.

Leia finishes welding the valves she has been working on and attempts 
to reengage the system by pulling a lever attached to the valve.  It 
doesn't budge.  Han notices her struggle, and moves to help her.  She 
rebuffs him.

				HAN
		Hey, Your Worship, I'm only 
		trying to help.

				LEIA
			(still struggling)
		Would you please stop calling me 
		that?

Han hears a new tone in her voice.  He watches her pull on the lever.

				HAN
		Sure, Leia.

				LEIA
		Oh, you make it so difficult 
		sometimes.

				HAN
		I do, I really do.  You could be 
		a little nicer, though.
			(he watches her 
			 reaction)
		Come on, admit it.  Sometimes you 
		think I'm all right.

She lets go of the lever and rubs her sore hand.

				LEIA
		Occasionally...
			(a little smile, 
			 haltingly)
		... when you aren't acting like 
		a scoundrel.

				HAN
			(laughs)
		Scoundrel?  Scoundrel?  I like 
		the sound of that.

With that, Han takes her hand and starts to massage it.

				LEIA
		Stop that.

				HAN
		Stop what?

Leia is flushes, confused.

				LEIA
		Stop that!  My hands are dirty.

				HAN
		My hands are dirty, too.  What 
		are you afraid of?

				LEIA
			(looking right 
			 into his eyes)
		Afraid?

Han looks at her with a piercing look.  He's never looked more 
handsome, more dashing, more confident.  He reaches out slowly and 
takes Leia's hand again from where it is resting on a console.  He 
draws it toward him.

				HAN
		You're trembling.

				LEIA
		I'm not trembling.

Then with an irresistible combination of physical strength and 
emotional power, the space pirate begins to draw Leia toward him... 
very slowly.

				HAN
		You like me because I'm a scoundrel.
		There aren't enough scoundrels in 
		your life.

Leia is now very close to Han and as she speaks, her voice becomes an 
excited whisper, a tone completely in opposition to her words.

				LEIA
		I happen to like nice men.

				HAN
		I'm a nice man.

				LEIA
		No, you're not.  You're...

He kisses her now, with slow, hot lips.  He takes his time, as though 
he had forever, bending her body backward.  She has never been kissed 
like this before, and it almost makes her faint.  When he stops, she 
regains her breath and tries to work up some indignation, but finds it 
hard to talk.

Suddenly, Threepio appears in the doorway, speaking excitedly.

				THREEPIO
		Sir, sir!  I've isolated the 
		reverse power flux coupling.

Han turns slowly, icily, from their embrace.

				HAN
		Thank you.  Thank you very much.

				THREEPIO
		Oh, you're perfectly welcome, sir.

The moment spoiled, Han marches out after Threepio.

EXT. SPACE - ASTEROID FIELD

The Imperial fleet moves through the asteroid-filled void, intently 
seeking its prey.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Asteroids collide, creating a fireworks display outside the bridge 
window.  Darth Vader stands, staring out the window above the control 
deck.  Then slowly turns toward the bridge.  Before him are the 
hologram images of twenty battleship commanders.  One of these images, 
the commander of a ship that has just exploded, is fading away quickly.  
Another image, in the center and a little apart from the others, is 
faded and continually disrupted by static.  It is the image of Captain 
Needa, commander of the Star Destroyer most hotly on the tail of the 
Millennium Falcon.  Admiral Piett and an aide stand behind the Dark 
Lord.

				NEEDA
			(in hologram)
		... and that, Lord Vader, was the 
		last time they appeared in any of 
		our scopes.  Considering the amount 
		of damage we've sustained, they 
		must have been destroyed.

				VADER
		No, Captain, they're alive.  I 
		want every ship available to 
		sweep the asteroid field until 
		they are found.

The Imperial star captains fade out one by one as Vader turns to 
Admiral Piett.

				PIETT
Lord Vader.

				VADER
		Yes, Admiral, what is it?

The admiral is scared, his face white as a sheet.

				PIETT
		The Emperor commands you make 
		contact with him.

				VADER
		Move the ship out of the asteroid 
		field so that we can send a clear 
		transmission.

				PIETT
		Yes, my lord.

EXT. ASTEROID FIELD - VADER'S STAR DESTROYER

Vader's Imperial Star Destroyer moves against the vast sea of stars 
away from the rest of the fleet.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - VADER'S CHAMBER

The Dark Lord, Darth Vader, is alone in his chamber.  A strange sound 
enters the room and a light begins to play across Vader's black figure.  
He looks up and bows quickly.

A twelve-foot hologram of the Galactic Emperor materializes before 
Vader.  The Emperor's dark robes and monk's hood are reminiscent of the 
cloak worn by Ben Kenobi.  His voice is even deeper and more 
frightening than Vader's.

				VADER
		What is thy bidding, my master?

				EMPEROR
		There is a great disturbance in 
		the Force.

				VADER
		I have felt it.

				EMPEROR
		We have a new enemy - Luke 
		Skywalker.

				VADER
		Yes, my master.

				EMPEROR
		He could destroy us.

				VADER
		He's just a boy.  Obi-Wan can no 
		longer help him.

				EMPEROR
		The Force is strong with him.  The 
		son of Skywalker must not become a 
		Jedi.

				VADER
		If he could be turned, he would 
		become a powerful ally.

				EMPEROR
		Yes.  Yes.  He would be a great 
		asset.  Can it be done?

				VADER
		He will join us or die, my 
		master.

Vader kneels.  The supreme Emperor passes a hand over the crouched Lord 
of the Sith and fades away.

EXT. DAGOBAH - CREATURE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

A heavy downpour of rain pounds through the gnarled trees.  A strange 
baroque mud house sits on a moss-covered knoll on the edge of a small 
lagoon.  The small, gnomish structure radiates a warm glow from its 
thick glass windows.  As rain tap-dances a merry tune on Artoo's head, 
the stubby little droid rises up on his tip-toes to peek into one of 
the glowing portals.

INT. CREATURE'S HOUSE

Artoo, peeking in the window, sees the inside of the house - a very 
plain, but cozy dwelling.  Everything is in the same small scale as the 
creature.  The only thing out of place in the miniature room is Luke, 
whose height makes the four-foot ceiling seem even lower.  He sits 
cross-legged on the floor of the living room.

The creature is in an adjoining area - his little kitchen - cooking up 
an incredible meal.  The stove is a steaming hodgepodge of pots and 
pans.  The wizened little host scurries about chopping this, shredding 
that, and showering everything with exotic herbs and spices.  He rushes 
back and forth putting platters on the table in front of Luke, who 
watches the creature impatiently.

				LUKE
		Look, I'm sure it's delicious.  
		I just don't understand why we 
		can't see Yoda now.

				CREATURE
		Patience!  For the Jedi it is 
		time to eat as well.  Eat, eat.  
		Hot.  Good food, hm? Good, hmm?

Moving with some difficulty in the cramped quarters, Luke sits down 
near the fire and serves himself from the pot.  Tasting the unfamiliar 
concoction, he is pleasantly surprised.

				LUKE
		How far away is Yoda?  Will it 
		take us long to get there?

				CREATURE
		Not far.  Yoda not far.  Patience.
		Soon you will be with him.
			(tasting food from 
			 the pot)
		Rootleaf, I cook.  Why wish you 
		become Jedi?  Hm?

				LUKE
		Mostly because of my father, I 
		guess.

				CREATURE
		Ah, your father.  Powerful Jedi 
		was he, powerful Jedi, mmm.

				LUKE
			(a little angry)
		Oh, come on.  How could you know 
		my father?  You don't even know 
		who I am.
			(fed up)
		Oh, I don't know what I'm doing 
		here.  We're wasting our time.

The creature turns away from Luke and speaks to a third party.

				CREATURE
			(irritated)
		I cannot teach him.  The boy has 
		no patience.

Luke's head spins in the direction the creature faces.  But there is no 
one there.  The boy is bewildered, but it gradually dawns on him that 
the little creature is Yoda, the Jedi Master, and that he is speaking 
with Ben.

				BEN'S VOICE
		He will learn patience.

				YODA
		Hmmm.  Much anger in him, like his father.

				BEN'S VOICE
		Was I any different when you 
		taught me?

				YODA
		Hah.  He is not ready.

				LUKE
		Yoda!  I am ready.  I... Ben!  I 
		can be a Jedi.  Ben, tell him I'm 
		ready.

Trying to see Ben, Luke starts to get up but hits his head on the low 
ceiling.

				YODA
		Ready, are you?  What know you 
		of ready?  For eight hundred years 
		have I trained Jedi.  My own counsel 
		will I keep on who is to be trained!
		A Jedi must have the deepest 
		commitment, the most serious mind.
			(to the invisible 
			 Ben, indicating Luke)
		This one a long time have I watched.
		All his life has he looked away...
		to the future, to the horizon.
		Never his mind on where he was.
		Hmm?  What he was doing.  Hmph.  
		Adventure.  Heh!  Excitement.  Heh!  
		A Jedi craves not these things.
			(turning to Luke)
		You are reckless!

Luke looks down.  He knows it is true.

				BEN'S VOICE
		So was I, if you'll remember.

				YODA
		He is too old.  Yes, too old to 
		begin the training.

Luke thinks he detects a subtle softening in Yoda's voice.

				LUKE
		But I've learned so much.

Yoda turns his piercing gaze on Luke, as though the Jedi Master's huge 
eyes could somehow determine how much the boy had learned.  After a 
long moment, the little Jedi turns toward where he alone sees Ben.

				YODA
			(sighs)
		Will he finished what he begins?

				LUKE
		I won't fail you - I'm not afraid.

				YODA
			(turns slowly toward 
			 him)
		Oh, you will be.  You will be.

EXT. SPACE - STAR DESTROYERS - ASTEROID FIELD

The Imperial fleet around Vader's ship is surrounded by the asteroid 
storm.  Asteroids big and small pelt the vast exteriors of the menacing 
ships.  One of the smaller Imperial vessels is hit by a huge asteroid 
and explodes in a brilliant flash of light.

INT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The cockpit is quiet and lit only by the indicator lights on the 
control panel.  Princess Leia sits in the pilot's seat.

She runs her hand across the control panel as she thinks of Han and the 
confusion he has created within her.  Suddenly, something outside the 
cockpit window catches her eye.  The reflection of the panel lights 
obscures her vision until a soft suctionlike cup attaches itself to the 
windscreen.  Leia
moves closer to see what it might be.  Large, yellow eyes flash open 
and stare back at her.  Startled, she jumps back into her seat, her 
heart pounding.  There is a scurry of feet and a loud screech, and in 
an instant the eyes are gone.  The young princess catches her breath, 
jumps out of her chair, and races from the cockpit.

INT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD AREA

The lights go bright for a second then out again.  Threepio and 
Chewbacca watch as Han finishes with some wires.

				THREEPIO
		Sir, if I may venture an opinion...

				HAN
		I'm not really interested in your 
		opinion, Threepio.

Leia rushes into the cabin just as Han drops the final floor panel into 
place.

				LEIA
			(out of breath)
		There's something out there.

				HAN
		Where?

				LEIA
		Outside, in the cave.

As she speaks, there comes a sharp banging on the hull.  Chewie looks 
up and barks anxiously.

				THREEPIO
		There it is.  Listen!  Listen!

				HAN
		I'm going out there.

				LEIA
		Are you crazy?!

				HAN
		I just got this bucket back 
		together.  I'm not going to let 
		something tear it apart.

He and Chewie grab their breath masks off a rack and hurry out.  Leia 
follows.

				LEIA
		Then I'm going with you.

				THREEPIO
		I think it might be better if I 
		stay here and guard the ship.
			(hears another 
			 mysterious noise)
		Oh, no.

EXT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON

It is very dark inside the huge asteroid cave, too dark to see what is 
attacking the ship.

Leia stamps her foot on the floor of the cave.

				LEIA
		This ground sure feels strange.
		It doesn't feel like rock at all.

Han kneels and studies the ground, then attempts to study the outline 
of the cave.

				HAN
		There's an awful lot of moisture 
		in here.

				LEIA
		I don't know.  I have a bad feeling 
		about this.

				HAN
		Yeah.

Chewie barks through his face mask, and points toward the ship's 
cockpit.  A five-foot-long shape can be seen moving across the top of 
the Falcon.  The leathery creature lets out a screech as Han blasts it 
with a laser bolt.

				HAN
			(to Leia)
		Watch out!

The black shape tumbles off the spaceship and onto the ground in front 
of the princess.  Han bends down to investigate the dead creature.

				HAN
		Yeah, that's what I thought.
		Mynock.  Chewie, check the rest 
		of the ship, make sure there 
		aren't any more attached.  They're 
		chewing on the power cables.

				LEIA
		Mynocks?

				HAN
		Go on inside.  We'll clean them 
		off if there are any more.

Just then, a swarm of the ugly creatures swoops through the air.  Leia 
puts her arms over her head to protect herself as she runs toward the 
ship.  Chewie shoos another Mynock away with his blaster.  Several of 
the batlike creatures flap their wings loudly against the cockpit 
window of the Falcon.  Inside, Threepio shudders at their presence.

				THREEPIO
		Ohhh!  Go away!  Go away!  Beastly 
		little thing.  Shoo!  Shoo!

Han looks around the strange, dripping cave.

				HAN
		Wait a minute...

He unholsters his blaster and fires at the far side of the huge cave.  
The cavern begins to shake and the ground starts to buckle.

Chewie barks and moves for the ship, followed closely by Leia and Han.  
The large wings of the Mynocks flap past them as they protect their 
faces and run up the platform.

INT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - ENTRY AREA

As soon as Han and Leia are on board, Chewie closes the main hatch.  
The ship continues to shake and heave.

				HAN
		All right, Chewie, let's get 
		out of here!

The Wookiee heads for the cockpit as Han, followed by Threepio, rushes 
to the hold area and checks the scopes on the control panel.  Leia 
hurries after.

				LEIA
		The Empire is still out there.
		I don't think it's wise to...

Han rushes past her and heads for the cockpit.

				HAN
			(interrupting)
		No time to discuss this in
		committee.

And with that he is gone.  The main engines of the Falcon begin to 
whine.  Leia races after him, bouncing around in the shaking ship.

				LEIA
			(angry)
		I am not a committee!

INT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han is already in the pilot's seat pulling back on the throttle.  The 
cave-quake has greatly diminished.

				LEIA
		You can't make the jump to light-
		speed in this asteroid field...

				HAN
		Sit down, sweetheart.  We're 
		taking off!

As the ship begins to move forward, Chewie barks.  He notices something 
out the window ahead.  Threepio sees it too.

				THREEPIO
		Look!

				HAN
		I see it, I see it.

Suddenly, a row of jagged white stalagmites and stalactites can be seen 
surrounding the entrance.  And as the Falcon moves forward, the 
entrance to the cave grows ever smaller.  Han pulls hard on the 
throttle, sending his ship surging forward.

				THREEPIO
		We're doomed!

				LEIA
		The cave is collapsing.

				HAN
		This is no cave.

				LEIA
		What?

Leia's mouth drops open .  She sees that the rocks of the cave entrance 
are not rocks at all, but giant teeth, quickly closing around the tiny 
ship.  Chewie howls.

INT. SPACE SLUG MOUTH

The Millennium Falcon, zooming through the monster's mouth, rolls on 
its side and barely makes it between two of the gigantic white teeth 
before the huge jaws slams closed.

EXT. CAVE ENTRANCE - GIANT ASTEROID

The enormous space slug moves its head out of the cave as the Falcon 
flies out of its mouth.  The monster tilts its head, watching the 
starship fly away.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GIANT ASTEROID

The Falcon races out of the asteroid crater and into the deadly rain of 
the asteroid storm.

EXT. DAGOBAH - DAY

With Yoda strapped to his back, Luke climbs up one of the many thick 
vines that grow in the swamp.  Panting heavily, he continues his course 
- climbing, flipping through the air, jumping over roots, and racing in 
and out of the heavy ground fog.

				YODA
		Run!  Yes.  A Jedi's strength 
		flows from the Force.  But beware 
		of the dark side.  Anger... fear... 
		aggression.  The dark side of 
		the Force are they.
		Easily they flow, quick to join 
		you in a fight.  If once you 
		start down the dark path, forever 
		will it dominate your destiny, 
		consume you it will, as it did 
		Obi-Wan's apprentice.

				LUKE
		Vader.  Is the dark side stronger?

				YODA
		No... no... no.  Quicker, easier, 
		more seductive.

				LUKE
		But how am I to know the good side 
		from the bad?

				YODA
		You will know.  When you are calm, 
		at peace.  Passive.  A Jedi uses 
		the Force for knowledge and 
		defense, never for attack.

				LUKE
		But tell me why I can't...

				YODA
			(interrupting)
		No, no, there is no why.  Nothing 
		more will I teach you today.
		Clear your mind of questions.  
		Mmm.  Mmmmmmmm.

Artoo beeps in the distance as Luke lets Yoda down to the ground.  
Breathing heavily, he takes his shirt from a nearby tree branch and 
pulls it on.

He turns to see a huge, dead, black tree, its base surrounded by a few 
feet of water.  Giant, twisted roots form a dark and sinister cave on 
one side.  Luke stares at the tree, trembling.

				LUKE
		There's something not right here.

Yoda sits on a large root, poking his Gimer Stick into the dirt.

				LUKE
		I feel cold, death.

				YODA
		That place... is strong with the 
		dark side of the Force.  A domain 
		of evil it is.  In you must go.

				LUKE
		What's in there?

				YODA
		Only what you take with you.

Luke looks warily between the tree and Yoda.  He starts to strap on his 
weapon belt.

				YODA
		Your weapons... you will not 
		need them.

Luke gives the tree a long look, than shakes his head "no."  Yoda 
shrugs.  Luke reaches up to brush aside some hanging vines and enters 
the tree.

INT. DAGOBAH - TREE CAVE

Luke moves into the almost total darkness of the wet and slimy cave.  
The youth can barely make out the edge of the passage.  Holding his lit 
saber before him, he sees a lizard crawling up the side of the cave and 
a snake wrapped around the branches of a tree.  Luke draws a deep 
breath, then pushes deeper into the cave.

The space widens around him, but he feels that rather than sees it.  
His sword casts the only light as he peers into the darkness.  It is 
very quiet here.

Then, a loud HISS! Darth Vader appears across the blackness, 
illuminated by his own just-ignited laser sword.  Immediately, he 
charges Luke, saber held high.  He is upon the youth in seconds, but 
Luke sidesteps perfectly and slashes at Vader with his sword.

Vader is decapitated.  His helmet-encased head flies from his shoulders 
as his body disappears into the darkness.  The metallic banging of the 
helmet fills the cave as Vader's head spins and bounces, smashes on the 
floor, and finally stops. For an instant it rests on the floor, then it 
cracks vertically.  The black helmet and breath mask fall away to 
reveal... Luke's head.

Across the space, the standing Luke gasps at the sight, wide-eyed in 
terror.

The decapitated head fades away, as in a vision.

EXT. DAGOBAH - CAVE - DUSK

Meanwhile, Yoda sits on the root, calmly leaning on his Gimer Stick.

EXT. SPACE - VADER'S STAR DESTROYER

Vader's Imperial Star Destroyer moves through space, guarded by its 
convoy of TIE fighters.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE - CONTROL DECK

Vader stands in the back control area of his ship's bridge with a 
motley group of men and creatures.  Admiral Piett and two controllers 
stand at the front of the bridge and watch the group with scorn.

				PIETT
		Bounty hunters.  We don't need 
		that scum.

				FIRST CONTROLLER
		Yes, sir.

				PIETT
		Those Rebels won't escape us.

A second controller interrupts.

				SECOND CONTROLLER
		Sir, we have a priority signal 
		from the Star Destroyer Avenger.

				PIETT
		Right.

The group standing before Vader is a bizarre array of galactic fortune 
hunters  There is Bossk, a slimy, tentacled monster with two huge, 
bloodshot eyes in a soft baggy face; Zuckuss and Dengar, two battle-
scarred, mangy human types; IG-88, a battered, tarnished chrome war 
droid; and Boba Fett, a man in a weapon-covered armored space suit.

				VADER
		... there will be a substantial 
		reward for the one who finds the 
		Millennium Falcon.  You are free 
		to use any methods necessary, but 
		I want them alive.  No disintegrations.

				BOBA FETT
		As you wish.

At that moment, Admiral Piett approaches Vader in a rush of excitement.

				PIETT
		Lord Vader!  My lord, we have 
		them.

EXT. IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER, AVENGER - ASTEROID BELT

The Millennium Falcon speeds through deep space, closely followed by a 
firing Imperial Star Destroyer.  A large asteroid about the same size 
as the Falcon tumbles rapidly toward the starship.  The tiny Falcon 
banks to avoid the giant asteroid as smaller rocks pelt its surface.  
Then the small craft roars under the asteroid which explodes harmlessly 
on the hull of the vast Star Destroyer.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The ship shudders as flak explodes near the cockpit window.  Threepio 
checks a tracking scope an the side control panel while Leia watches 
tensely out the window.

				THREEPIO
		Oh, thank goodness we're coming 
		out of the asteroid field.

Chewie barks excitedly as the rain of asteroids begins to subside.  A 
bolt from the Star Destroyer sets up a fiery explosion on the back side 
of the Falcon, causing it to lurch to one side.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - STAR DESTROYER, AVENGER - ASTEROID FIELD

The Falcon is hit hard by another bolt from the Star Destroyer which 
creates a huge explosion near the cockpit of the smaller ship.  The 
Falcon tilts steeply, then rights itself.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han corrects the angle of his ship.

				HAN
		Let's get out of here.  Ready for 
		light-speed?  One... two... three!

Han pulls back on the hyperspace throttle and - nothing happens.  Flak 
bursts continue to rock the ship.

				HAN
			(frantic)
		It's not fair!

Chewie is very angry and starts to growl and bark at his friend and 
captain.  Again, Han desperately pulls back on the throttle.

				HAN
		The transfer circuits are working.
		It's not my fault!

Chewie puts his head in his hands, whining.

				LEIA
			(almost expecting 
			 it)
		No light-speed?

				HAN
		It's not my fault.

				THREEPIO
		Sir, we just lost the main rear 
		deflector shield.  One more direct 
		hit on the back quarter and we're 
		done for.

Han pauses for a moment, makes a decision, and pulls back on a lever.

				HAN
		Turn her around.

Chewie barks in puzzlement.

				HAN
		I said turn her around!  I'm 
		going to put all power in the 
		front shield.

				LEIA
		You're going to attack them?!

				THREEPIO
		Sir, the odds of surviving a 
		direct assault on an Imperial 
		Star Destroyer...

				LEIA
		Shut up!

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - ASTEROID FIELD

The Falcon banks, makes a steep, twisting turn.  In the next moment it 
is racing toward the Star Destroyer, looking very small against the 
massive surface of the Imperial ship.  As it moves across the surface 
of the Star Destroyer, the Falcon bobs and weaves to avoid the numerous 
flak bursts.

INT. STAR DESTROYER, AVENGER - BRIDGE

The tiny Falcon heads directly for the Avenger's bridge.  The Imperials 
stationed there are stunned to see the small spaceship racing low 
across the hull, headed directly at the huge windows of the bridge 
area.  Alarms go off everywhere.  The Destroyer's commander, Captain 
Needa, can scarcely believe his eyes.

				NEEDA
		They're moving to attack 
		position!  Shields up!

Needa and his men duck as the Falcon nears the bridge window.  At the 
last minute, the Falcon veers off and out of sight.  All is quiet.

				NEEDA
		Track them.  They may come 
		around for another pass.

				TRACKING OFFICER
		Captain Needa, the ship no longer 
		appears on our scopes.

				NEEDA
		They can't have disappeared.  No 
		ship that small has a cloaking 
		device.

				TRACKING OFFICER
		Well, there's no trace of them, 
		sir.

				COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER
		Captain, Lord Vader demands an 
		update on the pursuit.

				NEEDA
			(drawing a breath)
		Get a shuttle ready.  I shall 
		assume full responsibility for 
		losing them, and apologize to Lord 
		Vader. Meanwhile, continue to 
		scan the area.

				COMMUNICATIONS OFFICER
		Yes, Captain Needa.

EXT. DAGOBAH - BOG - DAY

Luke's face is upside-down and showing enormous strain.  He stands on 
his hands, with Yoda perched on his feet.  Opposite Luke and Yoda are 
two rocks the size of bowling balls.  Luke stares at the rocks and 
concentrates.  One of the rocks lifts from the ground and floats up to 
rest on the other.

				YODA
		Use the Force.  Yes...

Yoda taps Luke's leg.  Quickly, Luke lifts one hand from the ground.  
His body wavers, but he maintains his balance.  Artoo, standing nearby, 
is whistling and beeping frantically.

				YODA
		Now... the stone.  Feel it.

Luke concentrates on trying to lift the top rock.  It rises a few feet, 
shaking under the strain.  But, distracted by Artoo's frantic beeping, 
Luke loses his balance and finally collapses.  Yoda jumps clear.

				YODA
		Concentrate!

Annoyed at the disturbance, Luke looks over at Artoo, who is rocking 
urgently back and forth in front of him.

Artoo waddles closer to Luke, chirping wildly, then scoots over the 
edge of the swamp.  Catching on, Luke rushes to the water's edge.  The 
X-wing fighter has sunk, and only the tip of its nose shows above the 
lake's surface.

				LUKE
		Oh, no.  We'll never get it out 
		now.

Yoda stamps his foot in irritation.

				YODA
		So certain are you.  Always with 
		you it cannot be done.  Hear you
		nothing that I say?

Luke looks uncertainly out at the ship.

				LUKE
		Master, moving stones around is 
		one thing.  This is totally 
		different.

				YODA
		No!  No different!  Only different 
		in your mind.  You must unlearn 
		what you have learned.

				LUKE
			(focusing, quietly)
		All right, I'll give it a try.

				YODA
		No!  Try not.  Do.  Or do not.  
		There is no try.

Luke closes his eyes and concentrates on thinking the ship out.

Slowly, the X-wing's nose begins to rise above the water.  It hovers 
for a moment and then slides back, disappearing once again.

				LUKE
			(panting heavily)
		I can't.  It's too big.

				YODA
		Size matters not.  Look at me.  
		Judge me by my size, do you?  
		Hm?  Mmmm.

Luke shakes his head.

				YODA
		And well you should not.  For my 
		ally in the Force.  And a powerful 
		ally it is.  Life creates it, makes 
		it grow.  Its energy surrounds us 
		and binds us.  Luminous beings 
		are we...
			(Yoda pinches 
			 Luke's shoulder)
		... not this crude matter.
			(a sweeping gesture)
		You must feel the Force around you.
			(gesturing)
		Here, between you... me... the 
		tree... the rock... everywhere!  
		Yes, even between this land and 
		that ship!

				LUKE
			(discouraged)
		You want the impossible.

Quietly Yoda turns toward the X-wing fighter.  With his eyes closed and 
his head bowed, he raises his arm and points at the ship.

Soon, the fighter rises above the water and moves forward as Artoo 
beeps in terror and scoots away.

The entire X-wing moves majestically, surely, toward the shore.  Yoda 
stands on a tree root and guides the fighter carefully down toward the 
beach.

Luke stares in astonishment as the fighter settles down onto the shore.  
He walks toward Yoda.

				LUKE
		I don't... I don't believe it.

				YODA
		That is why you fail.

Luke shakes his head, bewildered.

EXT. SPACE - IMPERIAL FLEET

The fleet around Vader's Star Destroyer now includes Needa's Star 
Destroyer, the Avenger.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

				VADER
		Apology accepted, Captain Needa.

Clutching desperately at his throat, Captain Needa slumps down, then 
falls over on his back, at the feet of Darth Vader.  Two stormtroopers 
pick up the lifeless body and carry it quickly away as Admiral Piett 
and two of his captains hurry up to the Dark Lord.

				PIETT
		Lord Vader, our ships have 
		completed their scan of the area 
		and found nothing.  If the 
		Millennium Falcon went into light-
		speed, it'll be on the other side 
		of the galaxy by now.

				VADER
		Alert all commands.  Calculate 
		every possible destination along 
		their last know trajectory.

				PIETT
		Yes, my lord.  We'll find them.

				VADER
		Don't fail me again, Admiral.

Vader exits as the admiral turns to an aide, a little more uneasy than 
when he arrived.

				PIETT
		Alert all commands.  Deploy the fleet.

EXT. SPACE - IMPERIAL FLEET

Vader's ship moves away, flanked by its fleet of smaller ships.  the 
Avenger glides off into space in the opposite direction.  No one on 
that ship or on Vader's is aware that, clinging to the side of the 
Avenger, is the pirateship, the Millennium Falcon.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

				THREEPIO
		Captain Solo, this time you have 
		gone too far.
			(Chewie growls)
		No, I will not be quiet, Chewbacca.
		Why doesn't anyone listen to me?

				HAN
			(to Chewie)
		The fleet is beginning to break 
		up.  Go back and stand by the 
		manual release for the landing claw.

Chewie barks, struggles from his seat, and climbs out of the cabin.

				THREEPIO
		I really don't see how that is 
		going to help.  Surrender is a 
		perfectly acceptable alternative 
		in extreme circumstances.  The 
		Empire may be gracious enough...

Leia reaches over and shuts off Threepio, mid-sentence.

				HAN
		Thank you.

				LEIA
		What did you have in mind for 
		your next move?

				HAN
		Well, if they follow standard 
		Imperial procedure, they'll dump 
		their garbage before they go to 
		light-speed, then we just float 
		away.

				LEIA
		With the rest of the garbage.
		Then what?

				HAN
		Then we've got to find a safe 
		port somewhere around here.  Got 
		any ideas?

				LEIA
		No.  Where are we?

				HAN
		The Anoat system.

				LEIA
		Anoat system.  There's not much 
		there.

				HAN
		No.  Well, wait.  This is 
		interesting.  Lando.

He points to a computer mapscreen on the control panel.  Leia slips out 
of her chair and moves next to the handsome pilot.  Small light points 
representing several systems flash by on the computer screen.

				LEIA
		Lando system?

				HAN
		Lando's not a system, he's a man.
		Lando Calrissian.  He's a card 
		player, gambler, scoundrel.  You'd 
		like him.

				LEIA
		Thanks.

				HAN
		Bespin.  It's pretty far, but I 
		think we can make it.

				LEIA
			(reading from the 
			 computer)
		A mining colony?

				HAN
		Yeah, a Tibanna gas mine.  Lando 
		conned somebody out of it.  We 
		go back a long way, Lando and me.

				LEIA
		Can you trust him?

				HAN
		No.  But he has no love for the
		Empire, I can tell you that.

Chewie barks over the intercom.  Han quickly changes his readouts and 
stretches to look out the cockpit window.

				HAN
			(into intercom)
		Here we go, Chewie.  Stand by.
		Detach!

Han leans back in his chair and gives Leia an invisible smile.  She 
thinks for a moment, shakes her head; a grin creeps across her face and 
she gives him a quick kiss.

				LEIA
		You do have your moments.  Not 
		many, but you have them.

EXT. SPACE - IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER

As the Avenger Star Destroyer moves slowly into space, the hatch on its 
underbelly opens, sending a trail of junk behind it.  Hidden among the 
refuse, the Falcon tumbles away.  In the next moment, the Avenger roars 
off into hyperspace.  The Falcon's engines are ignited, and it races 
off into the distance.  Amidst the slowly drifting junk, Boba Fett's 
ship appears and moves after the Falcon.

EXT. DAGOBAH - BOG - CLEARING - DAY

In the clearing behind Yoda's house, Luke again stands upside-down, but 
his face shows less strain and more concentration than before.  Yoda 
sits on the ground below the young warrior.  On the other side of the 
clearing, two equipment cases slowly rise into the air.  Nearby Artoo 
watches, humming to himself, when suddenly he, too, rises into the air.  
His little legs kick desperately and his head turns frantically, 
looking for help.

				YODA
		Concentrate... feel the Force 
		flow.  Yes.  Good.  Calm, yes.  
		Through the Force, things you 
		will see.  Other places.  The 
		future... the past.  Old friends 
		long gone.

Luke suddenly becomes distressed.

				LUKE
		Han!  Leia!

The two packing boxes and Artoo fall to the ground with a crash, then 
Luke himself tumbles over.

				YODA
			(shaking his head)
		Hmm.  Control, control.  You must 
		learn control.

				LUKE
		I saw... I saw a city in the 
		clouds.

				YODA
		Mmm.  Friends you have there.

				LUKE
		They were in pain.

				YODA
It is the future you see.

				LUKE
		Future?  Will they die?

Yoda closes his eyes and lowers his head.

				YODA
		Difficult to see.  Always in 
		motion is the future.

				LUKE
		I've got to go to them.

				YODA
		Decide you must how to serve 
		them best.  If you leave now, 
		help them you could.  But you 
		would destroy all for which they 
		have fought and suffered.

Luke is stopped cold by Yoda's words.  Gloom shrouds him as he nods his 
head sadly.

EXT. BESPIN SYSTEM - MILLENNIUM FALCON - DAWN

The powerful pirate starship blasts through space as it heads toward 
the soft pink planet of Bespin.

EXT. BESPIN SURFACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON

It is down on the gaseous planet.  Huge billowing clouds form a canyon 
as the ship banks around them, heading toward the system's Cloud City.

Suddenly, two twin-pod cloud cars appear and move toward the Falcon.  
The cloud cars draw up alongside the starship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

One of the cloud cars opens fire on the Falcon, its flak rocking the 
ship.  Chewie barks his concern.

				HAN
			(into transmitter)
		No, I don't have a landing 
		permit.  I'm trying to reach 
		Lando Calrissian.

More flak bursts outside the cockpit window and rattles the ship's 
interior.  Leia looks worried.

				HAN
			(into transmitter)
		Whoa!  Wait a minute!  Let me 
		explain.

				INTERCOM VOICE
		You will not deviate from your 
		present course.

				THREEPIO
		Rather touchy, aren't they?

				LEIA
		I thought you knew this person.

Chewie barks and growls at his boss.

				HAN
			(to Chewie)
		Well, that was a long time ago.
		I'm sure he's forgotten about 
		that.

				INTERCOM VOICE
		Permission granted to land on 
		Platform Three-two-seven.

				HAN
			(into transmitter)
		Thank you.

Angry, Han snaps off the intercom.  Chewie looks at him and grunts.  
Han turns to the worried princess and her droid.

				HAN
		There's nothing to worry about.
		We go way back, Lando and me.

Leia doesn't look convinced.

				LEIA
		Who's worried?

EXT. CLOUD CITY - MILLENNIUM FALCON - CLOUD CARS

The clouds part to reveal a full view of the city as it bobs in and out 
of the cloud surface.  The cloud cars and the Falcon head for the 
gleaming white metropolis.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM - MILLENNIUM FALCON

With the cloud cars still guarding it, the Falcon lands on one of the 
Cloud City's platforms.

EXT. LANDING PLATFORM - DOOR OF MILLENNIUM FALCON

Han and Leia stand at the open door, armed.  Behind them, Chewie, also 
armed, surveys the scene warily.

				THREEPIO
		Oh.  No one to meet us.

				LEIA
		I don't like this.

				HAN
		Well, what would you like?

				THREEPIO
		Well, they did let us land.

				HAN
		Look, don't worry.  Everything's 
		going to be fine.  Trust me.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR - DAY

Lando Calrissian, a suave, dashing black man in his thirties, leads a 
group of aides and some Cloud City guard rapidly toward the landing 
platform.

The group, like the other citizens of the city, is a motley collection 
of aliens, droids, and humans of all descriptions.  Lando has a grim 
expression on his face as he moves onto the landing platform.

EXT. LANDING PLATFORM - DOOR OF MILLENNIUM FALCON

				HAN
		See?  My friend.
			(to Chewie)
		Keep your eyes open, okay?

Chewie growls as Han walks down the ramp.  Lando and his men head 
across the bridge to meet the space pirate.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM

Lando stops ten feet from Han.  The two men eye each other carefully.  
Lando shakes his head.

				LANDO
		Why, you slimy, double-crossing, 
		no-good swindler!  You've got a 
		lot of guts coming here, after 
		what you pulled.

Han points to himself innocently, mouthing, "Me?"

Lando moves threateningly toward Han.  Suddenly, he throws his arms 
around his startled, long-lost friend and embraces him.

				LANDO
			(laughs)
		How you doing, you old pirate? 
		So good to see you!  I never thought 
		I'd catch up with you again.  Where 
		you been?

The two old friends embrace, laughing and chuckling.

EXT. LANDING PLATFORM - DOOR OF MILLENNIUM FALCON.

				THREEPIO
Well, he seems very friendly.

				LEIA
			(wary)
		Yes... very friendly.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM

				LANDO
		What are you doing here?

				HAN
			(gestures toward 
			 the Falcon)
		Ahh... repairs.  I thought you 
		could help me out.

				LANDO
			(in mock panic)
		What have you done to my ship?

				HAN
		Your ship?  Hey, remember, you 
		lost her to me fair and square.

Chewie growls a reserved greeting.  Lando suddenly notices the princess 
and smiles.

				LANDO
		Hello.  What have we here?  
		Welcome.  I'm Lando Calrissian.
		I'm the administrator of this 
		facility.  And who might you be?

				LEIA
		Leia.

				LANDO
		Welcome, Leia.

Lando bows before Leia and kisses her hand.

				HAN
		All right, all right, you old 
		smoothie.

Han takes Leia by the hand and steers her away from Lando.

				THREEPIO
		Hello, sir.  I am See-Threepio, 
		human-cyborg relations.  My 
		facilities are at your...

Before Threepio can finish his self-introduction, Lando has turned to 
follow Han and Leia, who are walking toward the city.

				THREEPIO
		Well, really!

Lando, his aide, Lobot, and Han lead the way across the bridge, 
followed by Threepio, Chewie and Leia.

				LANDO
		What's wrong with the Falcon?

				HAN
		Hyperdrive.

				LANDO
		I'll get my people to work on it.

				HAN
		Good.

Lando turns to Leia.

				LANDO
		You know, that ship saved my life 
		quite a few times.  She's the 
		fastest hunk of junk in the galaxy.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR

The group has crossed the narrow bridge and entered the city.  They 
walk down the lovely Art Deco passageway, rounding several corners and 
passing many small plazas as they go.  Threepio lags a bit behind.

				HAN
		How's the gas mine?  Is it 
		paying off for you?

				LANDO
		Oh, not as well as I'd like.
		We're a small outpost and not 
		very self-sufficient.  And I've 
		had supply problems of every kind.
		I've had labor difficulties...
			(catches Han 
			 grinning at him)
		What's so funny?

				HAN
		You.  Listen to you - you sound 
		like a businessman, a responsible 
		leader.  Who'd have thought that, 
		huh?

Lando is reflective.  He looks at Han a moment.

				LANDO
		You know, seeing you sure 
		brings back a few things.

				HAN
		Yeah.

				LANDO
			(shakes his head)
		Yeah.  I'm responsible these days.
		It's the price you pay for being 
		successful.

Han and Lando laugh together, and the group moves on through the 
corridor.

The lagging Threepio passes a Threepio-type silver droid who is coming 
out of a door.

				THREEPIO
		Oh!  Nice to see a familiar face.

				SECOND THREEPIO
			(mumbles)
		E chu ta!

				THREEPIO
		How rude!

Threepio stops, watching the silver droid move away.  Then he hears the 
muffled beeping and whistling of an R2 unit coming from within the 
room.

INT. CLOUD CITY - ANTEROOM

Curious, Threepio enters the room.

				THREEPIO
		That sounds like an R2 unit in 
		there.  I wonder if...

Threepio walks through the doorway to the main room.  He looks in.

				THREEPIO
		Hello?  How interesting.  Oh, my.

				MAN'S VOICE
			(from within)
		Who are you?

				THREEPIO
		Oh, I'm terribly sorry.  I... I 
		didn't mean to intrude.  No, no, 
		please don't get up.  No!

A laser bolt to Threepio's chest sends him flying in twenty directions.  
Smoldering mechanical arms and legs bounce off the walls as the door 
whooshes closed behind him.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR

Lando, Han, and Leia continue down the corridor unaware of Threepio's 
dreadful accident.  Chewbacca glances around, sniffs the air, but 
shrugs his shoulders and follows the group.

EXT. DAGOBAH - BOG - DUSK

In the bright lights of the fighter, Luke loads a heavy case into the 
belly of the ship.  Artoo sits on top of the X-wing, settling down into 
his cubbyhole.  Yoda stands nearby on a log.

				YODA
		Luke!  You must complete the 
		training.

				LUKE
		I can't keep the vision out of my 
		head.  They're my friends.  I've 
		got to help them.

				YODA
		You must not go!

				LUKE
		But Han and Leia will die if I 
		don't.

				BEN'S VOICE
		You don't know that.

Luke looks toward the voice in amazement.  Ben has materialized as a 
real, slightly shimmering image near Yoda.  The power of his presence 
stops Luke.

				BEN
		Even Yoda cannot see their fate.

				LUKE
		But I can help them!  I feel 
		the Force!

				BEN
		But you cannot control it.  This 
		is a dangerous time for you, 
		when you will be tempted by the 
		dark side of the Force.

				YODA
		Yes, yes.  To Obi-Wan you listen.
		The cave.  Remember your failure 
		at the cave!

				LUKE
		But I've learned so much since 
		then.  Master Yoda, I promise to 
		return and finish what I've begun. 
		You have my word.

				BEN
		It is you and your abilities the 
		Emperor wants.  that is why your 
		friends are made to suffer.

				LUKE
		And that is why I have to go.

				BEN
		Luke, I don't want to lose you to 
		the Emperor the way I lost Vader.

				LUKE
		You won't.

				YODA
		Stopped they must be.  On this 
		all depends.  Only a fully trained 
		Jedi Knight with the Force as his 
		ally will conquer Vader and his 
		Emperor.  If you end your training 
		now, if you choose the quick and 
		easy path, as Vader did, you will 
		become an agent of evil.

				BEN
		Patience.

				LUKE
		And sacrifice Han and Leia?

				YODA
		If you honor what they fight for
		... yes!

Luke is in great anguish.  He struggles with the dilemma, a battle 
raging in his mind.

				BEN
		If you choose to face Vader, you 
		will do it alone.  I cannot 
		interfere.

				LUKE
		I understand.
			(he moves to his 
			 X-wing)
		Artoo, fire up the converters.

Artoo whistles a happy reply.

				BEN
		Luke, don't give in to hate - 
		that leads to the dark side.

Luke nods and climbs into his ship.

				YODA
		Strong is Vader.  Mind what you 
		have learned.  Save you it can.

				LUKE
		I will.  And I'll return.  I promise.

Artoo closes the cockpit.  Ben and Yoda stand watching as the roar of 
the engines and the wind engulf them.

				YODA
			(sighs)
		Told you, I did.  Reckless is 
		he.  Now matters are worse.

				BEN
		That boy is our last hope.

				YODA
			(looks up)
		No.  There is another.

EXT. SPACE - PLANET DAGOBAH

Luke's tiny X-wing rockets away from the green planet of Dagobah and 
off into space.

INT. CLOUD CITY - LIVING QUARTERS - DAY

Within the quarters assigned her on Cloud City, Leia paces in 
agitation.  She has changed from her cold-weather pants and jacket to a 
lovely dress.  Her hair is down, tied back with ribbons.  She moves 
from a large, open window and turns to see Han entering through the 
doorway.

				HAN
		The ship is almost finished.
		Two or Three more things and 
		we're in great shape.

				LEIA
		The sooner the better.  Something's 
		wrong here.  No one has seen or 
		knows anything about Threepio.
		He's been gone too long to have 
		gotten lost.

Han takes Leia by the shoulders and gently kisses her forehead.

				HAN
		Relax.  I'll talk to Lando and 
		see what I can find out.

				LEIA
		I don't trust Lando.

				HAN
		Well, I don't trust him, either.
		But he is my friend.  Besides, 
		we'll soon be gone.

				LEIA
		And then you're as good as gone, 
		aren't you?

Not speaking, Han considers her words and gazes at her troubled face.

INT. CLOUD CITY - JUNK ROOM

The room is piled high with broken and discarded machine parts.  Four 
Ugnaughts, small hoglike creatures, separate the junk and throw some 
pieces onto a conveyer belt which moves briskly toward a pit of molten 
metal.  Pieces of Threepio's golden body move down the belt.  Chewie 
enters the room and spots an Ugnaught picking up and inspecting 
Threepio's head.  The Wookiee barks a command, startling the Ugnaught, 
then reaches to grab the head.  But the Ugnaught tosses it away from 
him to another Ugnaught.  This game of keep-away goes on until 
Threepio's head falls from their grip and bounces with a clang onto the 
ground.

INT. CLOUD CITY - LIVING QUARTERS - DAY

The door zaps open.  Chewbacca walks in, carrying a packing case of 
Threepio, arms and legs hanging over the edge.

				LEIA
		What happened?

Chewie sets the case on a table, grunting and groaning an explanation.

				HAN
		Where?  Found him in a junk pile?

				LEIA
		Oh, what a mess.  Chewie, do you 
		think you can repair him?

The giant Wookiee studies the array of robot parts.  He looks at the 
princess and shrugs sadly.

				HAN
		Lando's got people who can fix 
		him.

				LEIA
		No, thanks.

There is a buzz and the door slides open, revealing Lando.

				LANDO
		I'm sorry.  Am I interrupting 
		anything?

				LEIA
		Not really.

				LANDO
		You look absolutely beautiful.
		You truly belong here with us 
		among the clouds.

				LEIA
			(coolly)
		Thank you.

				LANDO
		Will you join me for a little 
		refreshment?

Han looks at Lando suspiciously, but Chewie barks at the mention of 
food and licks his lips.

				LANDO
		Everyone's invited, of course.

Leia takes Lando's proffered arm, and the group turns to go.  Lando 
spots Threepio's remains.

				LANDO
		Having trouble with you droid?

Han and Leia exchange a quick glance.

				HAN
		No.  No problem.  Why?

Han and Leia move arm-in-arm through the door, followed by Lando and 
Chewie.  The door slides closed behind them.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR - DAY

Leia walks between Han and Lando as Chewie follows a short distance 
behind.  Long shafts of light pour across the corridor between tall, 
pure-white columns.

				LANDO
		So you see, since we're a small 
		operation, we don't fall into 
		the... uh... jurisdiction of the 
		Empire.

				LEIA
		So you're part of the mining 
		guild then?

				LANDO
		No, not actually.  Our operation 
		is small enough not to be noticed... 
		which is advantageous for everybody 
		since our customers are anxious 
		to avoid attracting attention to 
		themselves.

The group walks into another corridor and heads for a huge doorway at 
the far end.

				HAN
		Aren't you afraid the Empire's 
		going to find out about this 
		little operation and shut you down?

				LANDO
		That's always been a danger looming 
		like a shadow over everything we've 
		built here.  But things have 
		developed that will insure security.
		I've just made a deal that will 
		keep the Empire out of here forever.

INT. CLOUD CITY - DINING ROOM

The mighty doors to the dining room slide open and the group enters the 
dining room.  At the far end of a huge banquet table sits Darth Vader.  
Standing at his side and slightly behind him is Boba Fett, the bounty 
hunter.

Faster than the wink of an eye, Han draws his blaster and pops off a 
couple of shots directly at Vader.  The Dark Lord quickly raises his 
hand, deflecting the bolts into one of the side walls, where they 
explode harmlessly.  Just as quickly, Han's weapon zips into Vader's 
hand.  The evil presence calmly places the gun on the table in front of 
him.

				VADER
		We would be honored if you would 
		join us.

Han gives Lando a mean look.

				LANDO
		I had no choice.  They arrived 
right before you did.  I'm sorry.
		
				HAN
		I'm sorry, too.

EXT.  LUKE'S X-WING - BESPIN SYSTEM

Luke's X-wing races through thick clouds toward Cloud City.

INT.  LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke is grim-faced as he pilots his course toward Bespin's shining 
city.  Artoo's beeps and whistles are transmitted onto the scope.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		No, Threepio's with them.

Artoo whistles another worried inquiry.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		Just hang on.  We're almost there.

INT. CLOUD CITY - LARGE CELL

Chewbacca is in a Cloud City prison cell.  The stark room is flooded 
with hot light.  To add to Chewie's misery, a high-pitched whistle 
screeches loudly.  Chewie is going mad.  He hits the wall with giant 
fists as he paces back and forth across the cell floor.  The upper 
lights go off abruptly.  The prisoner rubs his eyes and moves to a 
wall, where he listens for a moment.  Then, moaning to himself, he 
moves to a platform where the disassembled pieces of Threepio lie.  He 
picks up the golden droid's head and meditates on it for a moment, 
barking a few philosophical remarks.  Chewie sticks the robot's head on 
its torso and starts adjusting wires and circuits.

Suddenly, the lights in Threepio's eyes spark to life as Chewie touches 
two connectors together.  Threepio immediately begins to speak, but his 
voice is so slow and so low as to be nearly unintelligible.

				THREEPIO
		Mmmm.  Oh, my.  Uh, I, uh - Take 
		this off!  I, uh, don't mean to 
		intrude here.  I, don't, no, no, 
		no... Please don't get up.  No!

Chewie looks at Threepio in bewilderment, then scratches his furry 
head.  He gets an idea and adjusts some connections, whereupon Threepio 
immediately begins speaking normally.

				THREEPIO
		Stormtroopers?  Here?  We're in 
		danger.  I must tell the others.
		Oh, no!  I've been shot!

INT. CLOUD CITY - PRISON ENTRY AREA

Darth Vader strides through the room as two stormtroopers prepare an 
elaborate torture mechanism.  Han is strapped to a rack which tilts 
forward onto the torture device.  Vader activates the mechanism, 
creating two bursts of sparks, one of which strikes Han's face.

The door opens, and Vader leaves the torture room just as Han screams a 
sharp, piercing cry of agony.  Darth Vader moves to the holding 
chamber, where Lando and Boba Fett await him.

INT. CLOUD CITY - HOLDING CHAMBER

				LANDO
		Lord Vader.

				VADER
			(to Fett)
		You may take Captain Solo to 
		Jabba the Hut after I have 
		Skywalker.

Han's screams filter through the torture room door.

				BOBA FETT
		He's no good to me dead.

				VADER
		He will not be permanently damaged.

				LANDO
		Lord Vader, what about Leia and 
		the Wookiee?

				VADER
		They must never again leave this 
		city.

				LANDO
		That was never a condition of our 
		agreement, nor was giving Han to 
		this bounty hunter!

				VADER
		Perhaps you think you're being 
		treated unfairly.

				LANDO
		No.

				VADER
		Good.  It would be unfortunate if 
		I had to leave a garrison here.

Vader turns and sweeps into the elevator with Boba Fett.  Lando walks 
swiftly down another corridor, muttering to himself.

				LANDO
		This deal's getting worse all 
		the time.

INT. CLOUD CITY - LARGE CELL

Chewie now has a little more of Threepio back together.  One arm is 
connected, but the legs are yet to be attached.  There is one small 
problem, however.  It seems the Wookiee has managed to put the droid's 
head on backwards.

				THREEPIO
		Oh, yes, that's very good.  I like 
		that.  Oh!  Something's not right 
		because now I can't see.  Wait.  
		Wait!  Oh, my!  what have you done?  
		I'm backwards, you stupid furball.  
		Only an overgrown mophead like you 
		would be stupid enough...

Threepio is cut off in mid-sentence as Chewie angrily deactivates a 
circuit and the droid shuts down.  The Wookiee smells something and 
sits up.  The door to the chamber slides open and a ragged Han Solo is 
shoved into the room by two stormtroopers.  Barking his concern, the 
huge Wookiee gives Han a big hug.  Han is very pale, with dark circles 
under his eyes.

				HAN
		I feel terrible.

Chewie helps Han to a platform and then turns as the door slides open 
revealing Leia.  She, too, looks a little worse for wear.  The troopers 
push her into the cell, and the door slides closed.  She moves to Han, 
who is lying on the platform, and kneels next to him, gently stroking 
his head.

				LEIA
		Why are they doing this?

				HAN
		They never even asked me any 
		questions.

The cell door slides open.  Lando and two of his guards enter.

				LEIA
		Lando.

				HAN
		Get out of here, Lando!

				LANDO
		Shut up and listen!  Vader has 
		agreed to turn Leia and Chewie 
		over to me.

				HAN
		Over to you?

				LANDO
		They'll have to stay here, but at 
		least they'll be safe.

				LEIA
		What about Han?

				LANDO
		Vader's giving him to the bounty 
		hunter.

				LEIA
		Vader wants us all dead.

				LANDO
		He doesn't want you at all.  He's 
		after somebody called Skywalker.

				HAN
		Luke?

				LANDO
		Lord Vader has set a trap for him.

Leia's mind is racing.

				LEIA
		And we're the bait.

				LANDO
		Well, he's on his way.

Han's rage peaks.

				HAN
		Perfect.  You fixed us all pretty 
		good, didn't you?
			(spits it out)
		My friend!

Han hauls off and punches Lando.  The two friends are instantly engaged 
in a frantic close-quarters fight.  The guards hit Han with their rifle 
butts and he flies across the room.  Chewie growls and starts for the 
guards.  They point their laser weapons at the giant Wookiee, but Lando 
stops them.

				LANDO
		Stop!  I've done all I can.  I'm 
		sorry I couldn't do better, but 
		I have my own problems.

				HAN
		Yeah, you're a real hero.

Lando and the guards leave.  Han wipes the blood from his chin as Leia 
and Chewie help him up.

				LEIA
			(dabs at his wound)
		You certainly have a way with 
		people.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER

Four armor-suited stormtroopers stand at the ready in the large 
chamber, which is filled with pipes and chemical tanks.  In the middle 
of the room is a round pit housing a hydraulic platform.  Darth Vader 
and Lando stand near the platform.

				VADER
		This facility is crude, but it 
		should be adequate to freeze 
		Skywalker for his journey to the 
		Emperor.

An Imperial soldier appears.

				IMPERIAL SOLDIER
		Lord Vader, ship approaching.
		X-wing class.

				VADER
		Good.  Monitor Skywalker and allow 
		him to land.

The soldier bows and leaves the chamber.

				LANDO
		Lord Vader, we only use this 
		facility for carbon freezing.  If 
		you put him in there, it might 
		kill him.

				VADER
		I do not want the Emperor's prize 
		damaged.  We will test it... on 
		Captain Solo.

Lando's face registers dismay.

EXT. SPACE - BESPIN SYSTEM -  LUKE'S X-WING

Luke's X-wing moves through the clouds as it nears the city.

INT.  LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Encountering no city guards, Luke scans the display panel with concern.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER

There is a great activity on the carbon-freezing platform.  Six 
Ugnaughts frantically prepare the chamber for use.  A special 
coffinlike container is put in place.  With Boba Fett in the lead, a 
squad of six stormtroopers brings in Han, Leia and Chewie.  Strapped to 
Chewie's back, with only his head, torso, and one arm assembled, is 
Threepio.  Threepio's head faces the opposite direction from Chewie's 
and the droid is constantly twisting around in a vain effort to see 
what is happening.  His one attached arm is animate and expressive, 
intermittently pointing, gesturing, and covering his eyes.  The 
remaining pieces of his body are randomly bundled to the Wookiee's back 
so that his legs and other arm stick out at odd angles from the pack.

				THREEPIO
		If only you had attached my legs, 
		I wouldn't be in this ridiculous 
		position.  Now, remember, Chewbacca, 
		you have a responsibility to me, 
		so don't do anything foolish.

				HAN
			(to Lando)
		What's going on... buddy?

				LANDO
		You're being put into carbon freeze.

Boba Fett moves away from the group to Darth Vader.

				BOBA FETT
		What if he doesn't survive?  He's 
		worth a lot to me.

				VADER
		The Empire will compensate you 
		if he dies.  Put him in!

Realizing what is about to happen, Chewie lets out a wild howl and 
attacks the stormtroopers surrounding Han.  Within seconds, other 
Imperial reinforcements join the scuffle, clubbing the giant Wookiee 
with their laser weapons.

From the instant of Chewie's first move, Threepio begins to scream in 
panic while he tries to protect himself with his one arm.

				THREEPIO
		Oh, no!  No, no, no!  Stop, 
		Chewbacca, stop...!

The stormtroopers are about to bash Chewie in the face.

				HAN
		Stop, Chewie, stop!  Do you hear 
		me?  Stop!

				THREEPIO
		Yes, stop, please!  I'm not ready 
		to die.

Han breaks away from his captors.  Vader nods to the guards to let him 
go and the pirate breaks up the fight.

				HAN
		Chewie!  Chewie, this won't help 
		me.  Hey!

Han gives the Wookiee a stern look.

				HAN
		Save your strength.  There'll be 
		another time.  The princess - you 
		have to take care of her.  You 
		hear me?

Han winks at the Wookiee, who wails a doleful farewell.

In a flash the guards have slipped binders on Chewbacca, who is too 
distraught to protest.  Han turns to Princess Leia.  They look 
sorrowfully at one another, then Han moves toward her and gives her a 
final, passionate kiss.

				LEIA
		I love you!

				HAN
		I know.

Tears roll down Leia's face as she watches the dashing pirate walk to 
the hydraulic platform.  Han looks one final time at his friends - and 
then, suddenly, the platform drops.  Chewie howls.  Leia turns away in 
agony.

Lando winces in sorrow; it makes a life-changing impression on him.

Instantly, fiery liquid begins to pour down in a shower of sparks and 
fluid as great as any steel furnace.  Holding Leia, Chewie half-turns 
away from the sight, giving Threepio a view of the procedure.

				THREEPIO
		What... what's going on?  Turn 
		round, Chewbacca, I can't see.  
		Oh... they've encased him in 
		carbonite.  He should be quite 
		well-protected - if he survives 
		the freezing process, that is.

Chewie is in no mood for technical discussion; he gives the droid an 
angry glance and bark.

A huge mechanical tong lifts the steaming metal-encased space pirate 
out of the vat and stands him on the platform.  Some Ugnaughts rush 
over and push the block over onto the platform.  They slide the 
coffinlike structure to the block and lift the metal block, placing it 
inside.  They then attach an electronic box onto the structure and step 
away.  Lando kneels and adjusts some knobs, measuring the heat.  He 
shakes his head in relief.

				VADER
		Well, Calrissian, did he survive?

				LANDO
		Yes, he's alive.  And in perfect 
		hibernation.

Vader turns to Boba Fett.

				VADER
		He's all yours bounty hunter.
		Reset the chamber for Skywalker.

				IMPERIAL OFFICER
		Skywalker has just landed, my 
		lord.

				VADER
		Good.  See to it that he finds 
		his way here.  Calrissian, take 
		the princess and the Wookiee to 
		my ship.

				LANDO
		You said they'd be left in the 
		city under my supervision.

				VADER
		I am altering the deal.  Pray I 
		don't alter it any further.

Lando's hand instinctively goes to his throat as he turns to Leia, 
Chewie, and Threepio.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR - DAY

As Luke and Artoo move carefully down a deserted corridor, they hear a 
group of people coming down a side hallway.  Artoo lets out an excited 
series of beeps and whistles.  Luke glares at the tiny droid, who stops 
in his tracks with a feeble squeak.

Boba Fett enters from a side hallway followed by two guards pushing the 
floating, encased body of Han Solo.  Two stormtroopers, who follow, 
immediately spot Luke and open fire on him.  The youth draws his weapon 
and blasts the two troopers before they can get off a second shot.  The 
two guards whisk Han into another hallway as Fett lowers his arm and 
fires a deadly laser at Luke, which explodes to one side and tears up a 
huge chunk of wall.

Luke rushes to a side hallway, but by the time he reaches it, Fett, 
Han, and the guards are gone.  A think metal door blocks the passage.  
Luke turns to see Leia, Chewie, Threepio, and Lando being herded down a 
second hallway by several other stormtroopers.  Leia turns just in time 
to see Luke.

				LEIA
		Luke!  Luke, don't - it's a 
		trap!  It's a trap!

Before she can finish, she is pulled through a doorway and disappears 
from sight.  Luke races after the group, leaving little Artoo trailing 
behind.

INT. CLOUD CITY - ANTEROOM

Luke runs into an anteroom and stops to get his bearings.  Leia and the 
others are nowhere to be seen.  Behind Luke, Artoo scoots down the 
corridor toward the anteroom when suddenly a giant metal door comes 
slamming down, cutting off Luke's exit.  Several more doors clang shut, 
echoing through the chamber.

INT. CLOUD CITY - HALLWAY LEADING TO ANTEROOM

Artoo stands with his nose pressed against the giant metal door.  He 
whistles a long sigh of relief and, a little dazed, wanders off in the 
other direction.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER - ANTEROOM

Luke cautiously walks forward among hissing pipes and steam.  Seeing an 
opening above him, he stops to look up.  As he does, the platform he 
stands on begins to move.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER

Luke rises into the chamber, borne by the platform.  The room is 
deathly quiet.  Very little steam escapes the pipes and no one else 
seems to be in the large room.  Warily, Luke walks toward the stairway.

Steam begins to build up in the chamber.  Looking up through the steam, 
Luke sees a dark figure standing on a walkway above him.  Luke holsters 
his gun and moves up the stairs to face Vader.  He feels confident, 
eager to engage his enemy.

				VADER
		The Force is with you, young 
		Skywalker.  But you are not a 
		Jedi yet.

Luke ignites his sword in answer.  In an instant, Vader's own sword is 
lit.  Luke lunges, but Vader repels the blow.  Again Luke attacks, and 
the swords of the two combatants clash in battle.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR

Leia, Lando, and Chewie, with Threepio on his back, march along, 
guarded by six stormtroopers.  The group reaches an intersection where 
Lobot and a dozen of Lando's guards stand at attention.

The guards immediately aim their weapons at the startled stormtroopers.  
Taking the stormtroopers' weapons from them, Lobot hands one to Leia 
and one to Lando.

				LANDO
		Well done.  Hold them in the 
		security tower - and keep it 
		quiet.  Move.

As Lando's guards quickly march the stormtroopers away, Lando begins to 
undo Chewie's binding.

				LEIA
		What do you think you're doing?

				LANDO
		We're getting out of here.

				THREEPIO
		I knew all along it had to be a 
		mistake.

Chewie turns on Lando and starts to choke him.

				LEIA
		Do you think that after what you 
		did to Han we're going to trust 
		you?

Lando tries to free himself from Chewie.

				LANDO
			(choking)
		I had no choice...

Chewie barks ferociously.

				THREEPIO
			(to Chewie)
		What are you doing?  Trust him, 
		trust him!

				LEIA
		Oh, so we understand, don't we, 
		Chewie?  He had no choice.

				LANDO
		I'm just trying to help...

				LEIA
		We don't need any of your help.

				LANDO
			(choking)
		H-a-a-a...

				LEIA
		What?

				THREEPIO
		It sounds like Han.

				LANDO
		There's still a chance to save 
		Han... I mean, at the East 
		Platform...

				LEIA
		Chewie.

Chewie finally releases Lando, who fights to get his breath back.

				THREEPIO
			(to Lando)
		I'm terribly sorry about all this. 
		After all, he's only a Wookiee.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - EAST LANDING PLATFORM - BOBA FETT'S SHIP

The two guards slide Han's encased body into an opening in the side of 
the bounty hunter's ship.  Boba Fett climb aboard on a ladder next to 
the cargo hold.

				BOBA FETT
		Put Captain Solo in the cargo 
		hold.

And with that, the door slams shut.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR

Lando, Leia, and Chewie run down a Cloud City corridor when suddenly 
they spot Artoo who rushes toward them, beeping wildly.

				THREEPIO
		Artoo!  Artoo!  Where have you 
		been?

Chewie turns around to see the stubby droid, causing Threepio to be 
spun out of sight of his friend.

				THREEPIO
		Turn around, you wooly...! 
			(to Artoo)
		Hurry, hurry!  We're trying to 
		save Han from the bounty hunter!

Whistling frantically to Threepio, Artoo scoots along with the racing 
group.

				THREEPIO
		Well, at least your still in 
		one piece!  Look what happened to 
		me!

EXT. EAST LANDING PLATFORM - SIDE BAY

An elevator door slides open and Lando, Leia, and Chewbacca race for a 
large bay overlooking the East Landing Platform.

Just as they arrive, Boba Fett's ship takes off against a cloudy sunset 
sky.  

In wild anguish, Chewie howls and starts firing at the ship.

				THREEPIO
		Oh, no!  Chewie, they're behind 
		you!

A laser bolt explodes near the princess.  Everyone turns to see what 
Threepio has already spotted coming from the other direction; a squad 
of stormtroopers running toward them.  Artoo peeks out from the 
elevator.

Leia and Chewbacca start firing at the troopers as Lando makes a break 
for the elevator.  Laser bolts continue to explode around the princess 
and the Wookiee, but they refuse to budge.  Lando sticks his head out 
of the elevator and motions for the pair to run, but they barely 
notice.  They seem possessed, transported, as all the frustration of 
captivity and anger of loss pour through their death-dealing weapons.

But after a few moments, they begin to move through the rain of laser 
fire toward the elevator.  Once they are inside, the door slams shut 
and the stormtroopers race forward.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER

Luke and Vader are locked in combat on the platform overlooking the 
chamber.  Their swords clash, the platform sways.  Luke aggressively 
drives Vader back, forcing Vader to use defensive tactics.

				VADER
		You have learned much, young one.

				LUKE
		You'll find I'm full of surprises.

Vader makes two quick moves, hooking Luke's sword out of his hand and 
sending it flying.  Another lightning move at Luke's feet forces the 
youth to jump back to protect himself.  Losing his balance, Luke rolls 
down the stairs to the circular carbon-freezing platform.  There he 
sprawls on the floor, surprised and shaken.  Just in time he looks up 
to see Vader, like a giant black bird, flying right at him.  Luke rolls 
away as Vader lands.  Crouching, Luke keeps his gaze steadily on his 
enemy.

				VADER
		Your destiny lies with me, 
		Skywalker.  Obi-Wan knew this to 
		be true.

				LUKE
		No!

Behind Luke the hydraulic elevator cover has opened noiselessly.  All 
the while, Luke slowly, cautiously moves back, away from the Dark Lord.

Suddenly, Vader attacks so forcefully that Luke loses his balance and 
falls back into the opening.  There is a rumble, and in an instant 
freezing steam rises to obscure Vader's vision.   Vader turns aside and 
deactivates his sword.

				VADER
		All to easy.  Perhaps you are not 
		as strong as the Emperor thought.

Through the steam behind Vader something blurs upward.  Liquid metal 
begins to pour into the pit.

Vader turns around - and then looks up.  He sees Luke, who has leaped 
fifteen feet straight up and who now hangs from some hoses on the 
carbonite outlet.

				VADER
		Impressive... most impressive.

Luke jumps down to the platform where he is separated from Vader by the 
steaming carbonite pit.  He raises his hand.  His sword, which had 
fallen on another part of the platform, swiftly jumps into his 
outstretched hand and is instantly ignited.  Vader immediately lights 
his sword as well.

				VADER
		Obi-Wan has taught you well.  You 
		have controlled your fear... now 
		release your anger.

Luke is more cautious, controlling his anger.  He begins to retreat as 
Vader goads him on.  As Luke takes a defensive position, he realizes he 
has been foolhardy.  A quick sword exchange and Luke forces Vader back.  
Another exchange and Vader retreats.  Luke presses forward.

				VADER
		Only your hatred can destroy me.

Breathing hard, Luke jumps in the air, turning a somersault over Vader.  
He lands on the floor and slashes at Vader as the room continues to 
fill up with steam.

Vader retreats before Luke's skillful sword.  Vader blocks the sword, 
but looses his balance and falls into the outer rim of pipes.  The 
energy Luke has used to stop Vader has brought him to the point of 
collapse.  Luke moves to the edge and looks down, but sees no sign of 
Vader.  He then deactivates his sword, hooks it on his belt, and lowers 
himself into the pit.

INT. CLOUD CITY - TUNNEL AND REACTOR CONTROL ROOM

Moving through a tunnellike entrance, Luke cautiously approaches the 
reactor room.  He ignites his sword and moves into the room and toward 
a large window as Vader enters.

Luke raises his sword and moves forward to attack.

Behind Luke a large piece of machinery detaches itself from the wall 
and comes smashing forward toward his back.  Luke turns and cuts it in 
half just as another machine comes hurtling at him.  Using the Force, 
Luke manages to deflect it and send it flying as if it had hit an 
invisible shield.

A large pipe detaches and comes flying at Luke.  He deflects it.  
Sparking wires pull out of the wall and begin to whip at the youth.  
Small tools and equipment come flying at him.  Bombardment from all 
sides, Luke does his best to deflect everything, but soon he is 
bloodied and bruised.  Finally, one machine glances off his and goes 
flying out the large window.  A fierce wind blows into the room, 
unmoving, stands the dark, rocklike figure of Vader.

A piece of machinery hits Luke and he is knocked out of the window.

INT. GANTRY - OUTSIDE CONTROL ROOM - REACTOR SHAFT

Luke falls onto the gantry, rolls, and hangs over the edge, holding his 
deactivated sword in hand.  He puts the sword on his belt and begins to 
scramble up.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR LEADING TO LANDING PLATFORM

Leia, Lando, Chewie and the droids come round a corner and head for the 
door to the landing platform.  They glimpse the Millennium Falcon for a 
moment before the door slams shut.  The group ducks into an alcove as 
stormtroopers arrive at the end of the corridor.  The troopers send a 
rain of laser bolts at the group.  Chewie returns their fire as Lando 
punches desperately at the door's control panel.

				LANDO
		The security codes has been changed!

				THREEPIO
		Artoo, you can tell the computer 
		to override the security system.

Threepio points to a computer socket on the control panel.  Artoo beeps 
and scoots toward it.  Lando meanwhile has connected up to the panel's 
intercom.

				LANDO
		Attention!  This is Lando
		Calrissian.  The Empire has takes 
		control of the city.  I advise 
		everyone to leave before more 
		Imperial troops arrive.

Artoo takes off a computer cover and sticks his computer arm into the 
socket.  Suddenly, a short beep turns into a wild scream.  Artoo's 
circuits light up, his head spins wildly, and smoke begins to seep out 
underneath him.  Quickly, Chewie pulls him away.

				LANDO
		This way.

Lando, Leia, Artoo, and Chewie flee down the corridor.  As he scoots 
along with them, Artoo sends some angry beeps Threepio's way.

				THREEPIO
		Don't blame me.  I'm an interpreter. 
		I'm not supposed to know a power 
		socket from a computer terminal.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR

In a panic, Cloud City residents are trying to get out of the city.  
Some carry boxes, others packages.  They run, then change direction.  
Some are shooting at stormtroopers, others simply try to hide.

Other stormtroopers pursue Lando, Leia, and Chewie who are firing back 
at them.  Artoo works on another door to the landing platform while 
Threepio berates him for his seeming ineptitude.

				THREEPIO
		What are you talking about?  We're 
		not interested in the hyperdrive 
		on the Millennium Falcon.  It's 
		fixed!  Just open the door, you 
		stupid lump.

Chewie, Leia, and Lando retreat along the corridor.  A triumphant beep 
from Artoo - and the door snaps open.

				THREEPIO
			(to Artoo)
		I never doubted you for a second.
		Wonderful!

Artoo lays a cloud fog, obscuring everything, as the group dashes 
outside.

EXT. LANDING PLATFORM - CLOUD CITY - DUSK

They race for the Millennium Falcon as a battalion of stormtroopers 
reaches the main door.  Lando and Leia hold off the troops as the 
droids get on board with Chewie.  As Chewie bounds to the ship the 
Threepio on his back, Threepio hits his head on the top of the ramp.

				THREEPIO
		Ouch!  Oh!  Ah!  That hurt.  Bend 
		down, you thoughtless... Ow!

Chewie starts up the ship.  The giant engines begin to whine as Lando 
and Leia race up the ramp under a hail of laser fire.

				LANDO
		Leia!  Go!

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - CORRIDOR

Artoo drags the partially assembled Threepio down the corridor of the 
Falcon.

				THREEPIO
		I thought that hairy beast would 
		be the end of me.  Of course, I've 
		looked better.

Artoo beeps understandingly.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Chewie works the controls as Leia sits in Han's seat and Lando watches 
over their shoulders.  As Chewie pulls back on the throttle, the ship 
begins to move.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM - DUSK

The Millennium Falcon lifts gracefully into the twilight sky and roars 
away from the city.  Troops fire after it and TIE fighters take off in 
pursuit.

INT. GANTRY - OUTSIDE CONTROL ROOM - REACTOR SHAFT

Luke moves along the railing and up to the control room.

Vader lunges at him and Luke immediately raises his lit sword to meet 
Vader's.  Sparks fly as they duel, Vader gradually forcing Luke 
backward toward the gantry.

				VADER
		You are beaten.  It is useless 
		to resist.  Don't let yourself 
		be destroyed as Obi-Wan did.

Luke answers by rolling sideways and thrusting his sword at Vader so 
viciously that he nicks Vader on the shoulder.  The black armor sparks 
and smokes and Vader seems to be hurt, but immediately recovers.

Luke backs off along the narrow end of the gantry as Vader comes at 
him, slashing at the young Jedi with his sword.  Luke makes a quick 
move around the instrument complex attached to the end of the gantry.  
Vader's sword comes slashing down, cutting the complex loose; it begins 
to fall, then is caught by the rising wind and blown upward.

Luke glances at the instrument complex floating away.  At that instant, 
Vader's sword comes down across Luke's right forearm, cutting off his 
hand and sending his sword flying.  In great pain, Luke squeezes his 
forearm under his left armpit and moves back along the gantry to its 
extreme end.  Vader
follows.  The wind subsides.  Luke holds on.  There is nowhere else to 
go.  

				VADER
		There is no escape.  Don't make 
		me destroy you.  You do not yet 
		realize your importance.  You 
		have only begun to discover your 
		power.  Join me and I will complete 
		your training.  With our combined 
		strength, we can end this destructive 
		conflict and bring order to the 
		galaxy.

				LUKE
		I'll never join you!

				VADER
		If you only knew the power of the 
		dark side.  Obi-Wan never told 
		you what happened to your father.

				LUKE
		He told me enough!  It was you 
		who killed him.

				VADER
		No.  I am your father.

Shocked, Luke looks at Vader in utter disbelief.

				LUKE
		No.  No.  That's not true!  
		That's impossible!

				VADER
		Search your feelings.  You know 
		it to be true.

				LUKE
		No!  No!  No!

				VADER
		Luke.  You can destroy the Emperor.
		He has foreseen this.  It is your 
		destiny.  Join me, and together 
		we can rule the galaxy as father 
		and son.  Come with me.  It is the 
		only way.

Vader puts away his sword and holds his hand out to Luke.

A calm comes over Luke, and he makes a decision.  In the next instant 
he steps off the gantry platform into space.  The Dark Lord looks over 
the platform and sees Luke falling far below.  The wind begins to blow 
at Vader's cape and the torrent finally forces him back, away from the 
edge.  The wind soon fades and the wounded Jedi begins to drop fast, 
unable to grab onto anything to break his fall.

INT. REACTOR SHAFT

Suddenly Luke is sucked into an exhaust pipe in the side of the shaft.  
When Vader sees this, he turns and hurries off the platform.

INT. EXHAUST PIPE

Luke tumbles through the exhaust pipe.

He slides to the end of the slickly polished pipe and stops as his feet 
hit a circular grill and knock it open.  Luke claws at the surface of 
the pipe, trying to keep from sliding out into space.

EXT. BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY - WEATHER VANE - DUSK

Unable to hang onto the pipe, Luke tumbles out, emerging at the 
undermost part of Cloud City.  Reaching out desperately, he manages to 
grab onto on electronic weather vane.

				LUKE
		Ben... Ben, please!

Luke tries to pull himself up on the weather vane but slips back down.  
He hooks one of his legs around the fragile instruments.  All the 
while, a powerful current of air rushes out at him from the exhaust 
pipe.

				LUKE
		Ben.  Leia!

There is an ominous cracking sound from the base of the
weather vane and a piece breaks off, falling into the clouds far below.

				LUKE
		Hear me!  Leia!

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Leia seems to be lost in a fog, her expression troubled.  Chewie is 
busy operating the ship.  Lando stands next to the Wookiee, watching a 
readout on the control panel.

				LEIA
		Luke... We've got to go back.

Chewie growls in surprise.

				LANDO
		What?

				LEIA
		I know where Luke is.

				LANDO
		But what about those fighter?

Chewie barks in agreement with Lando.

				LEIA
		Chewie, just do it.

				LANDO
		But what about Vader?

Chewie turns on Lando, the newcomer, with an ominous growl.

				LANDO
		All right, all right, all right.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - MILLENNIUM FALCON - DUSK

The Falcon makes a graceful banking turn back toward Cloud City.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM

Vader enters the landing platform and watches as the speck that is the 
Falcon disappears.  The wind blows at his cape.

He turns to two aides who are standing near the entrance to the landing 
platform.

				VADER
		Bring my shuttle.

EXT. BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY - WEATHER VANE

Nearly unconscious, Luke hangs upside-down on the weather vane as his 
body shifts in the wind.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY

The Falcon dives to the underside of the floating city.  Three TIE 
fighter close in on the starship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON

Leia tries to remain calm.

				LANDO
			(pointing out the 
			 cockpit window)
		Look, someone's up there.

				LEIA
		It's Luke.  Chewie, slow down.
		Slow down and we'll get under him.
		Lando, open the top hatch.

Lando rushes out of the cockpit.

EXT. BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY - WEATHER VANE

Luke hangs by one arm from the crossbar of the weather vane.  He slips 
from the bar and grabs onto the pole of the vane as the Falcon banks 
toward him.  The Falcon positions itself under Luke as Lando moves up 
through the opening of the hatch.  Luke begins to slide and finally 
falls from the vane into space.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Out the cockpit window, Leia sees Luke falling from the bottom of the 
city.  The ship gains on him.

				LEIA
		Okay.  Easy, Chewie.

The Falcon closes in on Luke.

EXT. BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY

Three TIE fighters race toward the Falcon, firing away.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HATCH

The hatch pops open with a hiss of pressure.  Lando reaches out to help 
the battered warrior inside the ship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Flak bursts all around it as the Falcon banks away from the city.  Leia 
and Chewie struggle with the controls.

				LEIA
			(into intercom)
		Lando?

				LANDO
			(over intercom)
		Okay, let's go.

EXT. BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY

The Falcon races away.  It is closely followed by three TIE fighters, 
all of which keep up a heavy laser assault on the fleeing starship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Explosions erupt all around the cockpit, buffeting the ship wildly.  
Chewie howls as he frantically tries to control the ship.

Leia and Chewie turns to see Luke, bloody and battered, enter the 
cockpit supported by Lando.  Leia jumps up and hugs him while Chewie 
barks in joyous relief.

				LUKE
		Oh, Leia.

				LANDO
		All right, Chewie.  Let's go.

Leia helps Luke from the cockpit as another huge blast rocks the ship.

EXT. SPACE - CLOUD CITY - DAY

The Falcon, still followed by the three TIE fighters, races away from 
the cloud-covered city.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - SLEEPING QUARTERS

Luke rests on a cot, his injured arm wrapped in a protective cuff.  
Leia gently wipes his face.  The ship lurches again.

				LEIA
		I'll be back.

She kisses him, then leaves the quarters.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

All over the ship muted alarm buzzers sound.  Lando anxiously watches 
the flashing lights on the control panel and hurriedly adjusts some 
switches.  Seated next to him, Chewie points out a new blip appearing 
on the panel.  Leia, watching over their shoulders, recognizes the 
shape.

				LEIA
		Star Destroyer.

				LANDO
		All right, Chewie.  Ready for 
		light-speed.

				LEIA
		If your people fixed the 
		hyperdrive.

Another explosion rocks the ship.  Leia notices as a green light on the 
panel next to her flashes on.

				LEIA
		All the coordinates are set.
		It's now or never.

Chewie barks in agreement.

				LANDO
		Punch it!

The Wookiee shrugs and pulls back on the light-speed throttle.  The 
sound of the ion engine changes...it is winding up.  Faces are tense, 
expectant.  But nothing happens, and the engine goes off.  Chewie lets 
out a frustrated howl.  The flak still violently rocks the ship.

				LANDO
		They told me they fixed it.  I 
		trusted them to fix it.  It's not 
		my fault!

Chewie gets up from his chair and starts out of the cockpit.  He gives 
Lando and angry shove as he storms past him.

EXT. SPACE

In the distance the TIE fighters continue their chase, still shooting 
lasers.  Vader's Star Destroyer moves behind them, determinedly 
following the Falcon.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Vader stands on the bridge looking out the window as Admiral Piett 
approaches him.

				PIETT
		They'll be in range of our 
		tractor beam in moments, my lord.

				VADER
		Did your men deactivate the 
		hyperdrive on the Millennium 
		Falcon?

				PIETT
		Yes, my lord.

				VADER
		Good.  Prepare the boarding party 
		and set your weapons for stun.

				PIETT
		Yes, my lord.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON

Beeping while he works, Artoo is busy connecting some wires to Threepio 
who now has one leg attached. 

Chewie enters through the doorway, grunting to himself.

				THREEPIO
		Noisy brute.  Why don't we just 
		go into light-speed?

Artoo beeps in response.

				THREEPIO
		We can't?  How would you know the 
		hyperdrive is deactivated?

Artoo whistles knowingly.

				THREEPIO
		The city's central computer told 
		you?  Artoo-Detoo, you know better 
		than to trust a strange computer.
		Ouch!  Pay attention to what 
		you're doing!

Chewie is in the pit.  He is trying to loosen something with an 
enormous wrench.  Frustrated, he uses the wrench like a club and hits 
the panel...

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Leia and Lando, seated in front of the control panel, are suddenly 
sprayed by a shower of sparks.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Vader stands on the bridge, watching as the Millennium Falcon is chased 
by the TIE fighters.  As his Destroyer draws nearer, Vader's breathing 
gets slightly faster.

				VADER
		Luke.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - SLEEPING QUARTERS

Luke realizes that Vader's ship is very near.  He feels resigned to his 
fate.  He senses that he is beaten, more emotionally than physically.

				LUKE
		Father.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

				VADER
		Son, come with me.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - SLEEPING QUARTERS

				LUKE
			(moaning)
		Ben, why didn't you tell me?

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando and Leia are at the controls of the Falcon.  Meanwhile, in the 
ship's hold, Chewie continues to work frantically on the hyperdrive 
mechanism.

				LANDO
			(into intercom)
		Chewie!

EXT. SPACE

The Falcon races through space followed very closely by the TIE 
fighters and the huge Imperial Star Destroyer.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Luke enters the cockpit and looks out the window.  He is almost 
unconscious with pain and depression.

				LUKE
		It's Vader.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

				VADER
		Luke... it is your destiny.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

				LUKE
		Ben, why didn't you tell me?

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

				PIETT
		Alert all commands.  Ready for 
		the tractor beam.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD

Artoo races to a control panel and starts working on a circuit board.  
Furious, Threepio stands on one leg, yelling.

				THREEPIO
		Artoo, come back at once!  You 
		haven't finished with me yet!
		You don't know how to fix the 
		hyperdrive.  Chewbacca can do 
		it.  I'm standing here in pieces, 
		and you're having delusions of 
		grandeur!

Artoo moves a circuit on a control panel.  Suddenly, the control panel 
lights up.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Leia and Lando are thrown into their seats as the Millennium Falcon 
unexpectedly shoot into hyperspace.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD

The ship tilts up and Artoo topples into the pit on top of Chewie.

				THREEPIO
		Oh, you did it!

EXT. SPACE

The Falcon soars into infinity and away from the huge Star Destroyer 
which seems, by contrast, to stand still.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Admiral Piett and another captain glance at Vader in terror.  Vader 
turns slowly and walks off the bridge, his hands held behind his back 
in a contemplative gesture.

EXT. SPACE - REBEL CRUISER

The Millennium Falcon is attached to a huge Rebel cruiser by a docking 
tube.  Rebel fighters move about the giant cruiser, and a Rebel 
transport ship hovers near the fleet.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando sits in the pilot's seat as he talks into the comlink.  Chewie 
busily throws a variety of switches in preparation for takeoff.

				LANDO
			(into comlink)
		Luke, we're ready for takeoff.

				LUKE
			(over comlink)
		Good luck, Lando

				LANDO
			(into comlink)
		When we find Jabba the Hut and 
		that bounty hunter, we'll contact 
		you.

INT. STAR CRUISER - MEDICAL CENTER

Luke speaking into the comlink as a medical droid works on his hand.  
Leia stands near him while Threepio and Artoo look out the window.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		I'll meet you at the rendezvous 
		point on Tatooine.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

				LANDO
			(into comlink)
		Princess, we'll find Han.  I 
		promise.

INT. STAR CRUISER - MEDICAL CENTER

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		Chewie, I'll be waiting for your 
		signal.

Chewie's wail comes over the comlink.

				LUKE
			(into comlink)
		Take care, you two.  May the 
		Force be with you.

Luke looks down at his hand.  A metalized type of bandage has been 
wrapped around his wrist.  The medical droid makes some adjustments in 
a tiny electronic unit, then pricks each one of Luke's fingers.

				LUKE
		Ow!

Luke wriggles his fingers, makes a fist, and relaxes it.  His hand is 
completely functional.

He gets up and walks over to Leia.  There is a new bond between them, a 
new understanding.  Leia is thinking about Han; Luke is thinking about 
his uncertain and newly complicated future.  Together they stand at the 
large window of the medical center looking out on the Rebel Star 
Cruiser and a dense, luminous galaxy swirling in space.

Luke puts his arm around Leia.  The droids stand next to them, and 
Threepio moves closer to Artoo putting his arm on him.  The group 
watches as the Millennium Falcon moves into view, makes a turn, and 
zooms away into space.

EXT. SPACE - REBEL STAR CRUISER

While Luke, Leia, and the droids stand, looking out the window of the 
star cruiser, two escort fighters join the large ship.  Slowly, the 
cruiser turns and moves away into space.

								DISSOLVE TO 

EXT. GALAXY - SPACE

END CREDITS FADE IN AND OUT OVER BACKGROUND

				THE END


STAR WARS : EPISODE 1:THE PHANTOM MENACE



TITLE CARD : A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away....

A vast sea of stars serves as the backdrop for the main title, followed by
a roll up, which crawls up into infinity.

EPISODE 1 THE PHANTOM MENACE

Turmoil has engulfed the Galactic Republic. The taxation of trade routes to
outlaying star systems is in dispute.
Hoping to resolve the matter with a blockade of deadly battleships, the
greedy Trade Federation has stopped all shipping to the small planet of
Naboo.
While the congress of the Republic endlessly debates this alarming chain of
events, the Supreme Chancellor has secretly dispatched two Jedi Knights,
the guardians of peace and justice in the galaxy, to settle the
conflict.....

PAN DOWN to reveal a small space cruiser heading TOWARD CAMERA at great
speed. PAN with the cruiser as it heads towardthe beautiful green planet of
Naboo, which is surrounded by hundreds of Trade Federation battleships.

INT. REPUBLIC CRUISER - COCKPIT

In the cockpit of the cruise, the CAPTAIN and PILOT maneuver closer to one
of the battleships.

QUI-GON : (off screen voice) Captain.

The Captain turns to an unseen figure sitting behind her.

CAPTAIN : Yes, sir?
QUI-GON : (V.O) Tell them we wish to board at once.
CAPTAIN : Yes, sir.

The CAPTAIN looks to her view screen, where NUTE GUNRAY, a Neimoidian trade
viceroy, waits for a reply.

CAPTAIN : (cont'd) With all due respect for the Trade Federation, the
Ambassodors for the Supreme Chancellor wish to board immediately.
NUTE : Yes, yes, of coarse...ahhh...as you know, our blockade is perfectly
legal, and we'd be happy to recieve the Ambassador...Happy to.

The screen goes black. Out the cockpit window, the sinister battleship
looms ever closer.

EXT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - DOCKING BAY - SPACE (FX)

The small space cruiser docks in the enormous main bay of the Federation
battleship.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - DOCKING BAY - SPACE

A PROTOCOL DROID, TC-14, waits at the door to the docking bay. Two WORKER
DROIDS, PK-4 and EG-9 watch.

PK-4 : They must be important if the Viceroy sent one of those useless
protocol gearheads to greet them.

The door opens, and the Republic cruiser can be seen in the docking bay.
Two darkly robed figures are greeted by TC-14.

TC-14 : I'm TC-14 at your service. This way, please.

They move off down the hallway.

EG-9 : A Republic cruiser! That's trouble...don't you think?
PR-4 : I'm not made to think.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - CONFERENCE ROOM

A door slides open, and the two cloaked shapes are led PAST CAMERA into the
formal conference room by TC-14.

TC-14 : I hope you honoured sirs with the most comfortable here. My master
will be with you shortly.

The droid bows before OBI-WAN KENOBI and QUI- GON JINN. He backs out the
door and it closes. The JEDI lower their hoods and look out a large window
at the lush green planet of Naboo. QUI-GON sixty years old, has long white
hair in a ponytail. He is tall and striking, with blue eyes. OBI-WAN is
twenty five, with very short brown hair, pale skin, and blue eyes. Several
exotic, bird-like creatures SING in a cage near the door.

OBI-WAN : I have a bad feeling about this.
QUI-GON : I don't sense anything.
OBI-WAN : It's not about the mission, Master, it's
somethging...elsewhere...elusive.
QUI-GON : Don't center on your anxiety, Obi-Wan. Keep your concentration
here and now where it belongs.
OBI-WAN : Master Yoda says I should be mindful of the future...
QUI-GON : .....but not at the expense of the moment. Be mindful of the
living Force, my young Padawan.
OBI-WAN : Yes, Master...how do you think the trade viceroy will deal with
the chancellor's demands?
QUI-GON : These Federation types are cowards. The negotiations will be
short.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - BRIDGE

NUTE GUNRAY and DAULTRAY DOFINE stand, stunned, before TC-14.

NUTE : (shaken) What?!? What did you say?
TC-14 : The Ambassadors are Jedi Knights, I believe.
DOFINE : I knew it! They were sent to force a settlement, eh. Blind me,
we're done for!

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - HALLWAY

A hologram of NUTE , surrounded by BATTLE DROIDS, appears in the conference
room hallway.

NUTE : They must be dead by now. Blast, what's left of them.

The hologram fades off, as a BATTLE DROID, OWO-1, cautiously opens the
door. A deadly green cloud billows from the room. BATTLE DROIDS cock their
weapons as a figure stumbles out of the smoke. It is TC-14 , carrying the
tray of drinks.

TC14 : Oh, excuse me, so sorry.

The PROTOCOL DROID passes the armed camp just as two flashing laser swords
fly out of the deadly fog, cutting down several BATTLE DROIDS before they
can fire.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - BRIDGE

The bridge is a cocophony of alarms. NUTE and RUNE watch OWO-1 on the
viewscreen.

OWO-1 : Not sure exactly what...

OWO-1 is suddenly cut in half in mid-sentence. RUNE gives NUTE a worried
look.

NUTE : What in blazes is going on down there?
RUNE : Have you ever encountered a Jedi Knight before, sir?
NUTE : Well, not exactly, but I don't...(panicked) Seal off the bridge.
RUNE : That won't be enough, sir.

The doors to the bridge SLAM shut.

NUTE : I want destroyer droids up here at once!!!
RUNE : We will not survive this.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - HALLWAY - OUTSIDE BRIDGE

QUI-GON cuts several BATTLE DROIDS in half, creating a shower of sparks and
metal parts. OBI-WAN raises his hand, sending several BATTLE DROIDS
crashing into the wall.

QUI-GON makes his way to the bridge door and begins to cut through it.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - BRIDGE

The CREW is very nervous as sparks start flying around the bridge door.
QUI-GON and OBI-WAN are on the view screen.

NUTE : Close the blast doors!!!

The huge, very thick blast door slams shut, followed by a second door, then
a third. There is a hissing sound as the huge doors seal shut. QUI-GON tabs
the door with his sword. The screen goes black as a red spot appears in the
center of the blast door.

RUNE : ...They're still coming through!

On the door, chunks of molten metal begin to drop away.

NUTE : Impossible!! This is impossible!!
RUNE : Where are those destroyer droids?!

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - HALLWAY - OUTSIDE BRIDGE

Ten ugly destroyer WHEEL DROIDS roll down the hallway at full speed. Just
before they get to the bridge area, they stop and transform into their
battle configuration. QUI-GON can't see them but senses their presence.

QUI-GON : Destroyer droids!
OBI-WAN : Offhand, I'd say this mission is past the negotiaion stage.

The WHEEL DROIDS, led by P-59, rush the entry area from three hallways,
blasting away with their laser guns. They stop firing and stand in a
semi-circle as the smoke clears. OBI-WAN and QUI-GON are nowhere to be
seen.

P-59 : Switch to bio...There they are!

The Jedi materialize at the far end of the hallway and dash through the
doorway that slams shut. The WHEEL DROIDS blast away at the two JEDI with
their laser swords.

OBI-WAN : They have shield generators!
QUI-GON : It's a standoff! Let's go!

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - BRIDGE

NUTE and RUNE stand on the bridge, watching the view screen as the WHEEL
DROIDS' POV speeds to the doorway.

RUNE : We have them on the run, sir...they're no match for destroyer
droids.
TEY HOW : Sir, they've gone up the ventilation shaft.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - MAIN BAY

QUI-GON and OBI-WAN appear at a large vent in a giant hanger bay. They are
careful not to be seen. Thousands of BATTLE DROIDS are loading onto landing
craft.

QUI-GON : Battle droids.
OBI-WAN : It's an invisible army.
QUI-GON : It's an odd play for the Trade Federation. We've got to warn the
Naboo and contact Chancellor Valorum. Let's split up. Stow aboard separate
ships and meet down on the planet.
OBI-WAN : You were right about one thing, Master. The negotiations were
short.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - BRIDGE

TEY HOW recieves a transmission.

TEY HOW : Sir, a transmission from the planet.
RUNE : It's Queen Amidala herself.
NUTE : At last we're getting results.

On the view screen, QUEEN AMIDALA appears in her throne room. Wearing her
elaborate headdress and robes, she sits, surrounded by the GOVERNING
COUNCIL and FOUR HANDMAIDENS, EIRTAE, YANE, RABE, and SACHE.

NUTE : (cont'd) Again you come before me, Your highness. The Federation is
pleased.
AMIDALA : You will not be pleased when you hear what I have to say,
Viceroy...Your trade boycott of our planet has ended.

NUTE smirks at RUNE.

NUTE : I was not aware of such a failure.
AMIDALA : I have word that the Senate is finally voting on this blockade of
yours.
NUTE : I take it you know the outcome. I wonder why they bother to vote.
AMIDALA : Enough of this pretense, Viceroy! I'm aware the Chancellor's
Ambassadors are with you now, and that you have beencommanded to reach a
settlement.
NUTE : I know nothing about any Ambassadors...you must be mistaken.

AMIDALA, surprised at his reaction, studies him carefully.

AMIDALA : Beware, Viceroy....the Federation is going too far this time.
NUTE : Your Highness, we would never do anything without the approval of
the Senate. You assume too much.
AMIDALA : We will see.

The QUEEN fades off, and the view screen goes black.

RUNE : She's right, the Senate will never....
NUTE : It's too late now.
RUNE : Do you think she suspects an attack?
NUTE : I don't know, but we must move quickly to disrupt all communications
down there.

INT. NABOO PALACE - THRONE ROOM

The QUEEN, EIRTAE, SACHE and her Governor, SIO BIBBLE, stand before a
hologram of SENATOR PALPATINE, a thin, kindly man.

PALPATINE : ...How could that be true? I have assurances from the
Chancellor...his Ambassaodrs did arrive. It must be
the...get...negotiate...

The hologram of PALPATIONE sputters and fades away.

AMIDALA : Senator Palpatine?!? (turns to Panaka) What's happening?

CAPTAIN PANAKA turns to his SARGEANT

CAPT. PANAKA : Check the transmission generators...
BIBBLE : A malfunction?
CAPT. PANAKA : It could be the Federation jamming us. Your Highness.
BIBBLE : A communications disruption can only mean one thing. Invasion.
AMIDALA : Don't jump to conclusions, Governor. The Federation would not
dare go that far.
CAPT. PANAKA : The Senate would revoke their trade franchise, and they'd be
finished.
AMIDALA : We must continue to rely on negotiation.
BIBBLE : Negotiation? We've lost all communications!...and where atre the
Chancellors Ambassadors? How can we negotiate? We must prepare to defend
ourselves.
CAPT. PANAKA : This is a dangerous situation, Your Highness. Our security
volunteers will be no match against a battle-hardened Federation army.
AMIDALA : I will not condone a course of action that will lead us to war.

EXT. SPACE LANDING CRAFT - TWILIGHT (FX)

Six landing craft fly in formation toward the surface of the planet Naboo.

EXT. NABOO SWAMP - SHALLOW LAKE - TWILIGHT

Three landing craft slowly descend through the cloud cover of the
perpetually gray twilight side of the planet. One by one, the Federation
warships land in the eerie swamp.
OBI-WAN's head emerges from the mud of a shallow lake. For in the
background, the activities of the invasion force can be seen in the mist.
OBI-WAN takes several deep breaths, then dissapears again under the muddy
swamp. Troop Transports (MTT's) emerge from the landing craft.

EXT. NABOO EDGE OF SWAMP / GRASS PLAINS - TWILIGHT (FX)

The droid invasion force moves out of the swamp and onto a grassy plain.
OOM-9, in his tank, looks out over the vast ARMY marching across the
rolling hills. A small hologram of RUNE and NUTE stands on the tank.

RUNE : ...and there is no trace of the Jedi. They may have gotton onto one
of your landing craft.
OOM-9 : If they are down here, sir, we'll find them. We are moving out of
the swamp and are marching on the cities. We are meeting no resistance.
NUTE : Excellent.

EXT. NABOO SWAMP - TWILIGHT

QUI-GON runs through the strange landscape, glancing back to see the
monstrous troop transports, emerging from the mist. Animals begin to run
past him in a panic.
An odd, frog-like Gungan, JAR JAR INKS, squats holding a clam he has
retrieved from the murky swamp. The shell pops open. JAR JAR's greta tongue
snaps out and grabs the clam, swallowing it in one gulp.
JAR JAR looks up and sees QUI-GON and the other creatures running like the
wind toward him. One of the huge MTT's bears down on the JEDI like a
charging locomotive. JAR JAR stands transfixed, still holding the clam
shell in one hand.

JAR JAR : Oh, noooooooooo!

JAR JAR drops the shell and grabs onto QUI-GON as he passes. The JEDI is
caught by surprise.

JAR JAR : (Cont'd) Hey, help me! Help me!!
QUI-GON : Let go!

The machine is about tp crush them as QUI-GON drags JAR JAR behind him.
Just as the transport is about to hit them, QUI-GON drops, and JAR JAR goes
splat into the mud with him. The transport races overhead.
QUI-GON and JAR JAR pull themselves out of the mud. They stand watching the
war machine dissapear into the mist. JAR JAR grabs QUI-GON and hugs him.

JAR JAR : Oyi, mooie-mooie! I luv yous!

The frog-like creature kisses the JEDI.

QUI-GON : Are you brainless? You almost got us killed!
JAR JAR : I spake.
QUI-GON : The ability to speak does not make you intelligent. Now get outta
here!

QUI-GON starts to move off, and JAR JAR follows.

JAR JAR : No...no! Mesa stay...Mesa yous humble servaunt.
QUI-GON : That wont be necessary.
JAR JAR : Oh boot tis! Tis demunded byda guds. Tis a live debett, tis. Mesa
culled Jaja Binkss.

In the distance, two STAPS burst out of the mist at high speed, chasing
OBI-WAN.

QUI-GON : I have no time for this now...
JAR JAR : Say what?

The two STAPS barrell down on OBI-WAN.

JAR JAR : (cont'd) Oh, nooooo! Weesa ganna....

QUI-GON throws JAR JAR into the mud.

QUI-GON : Stay down!

His head pops up.

JAR JAR : ...dieeee!

The two troops fire laser bolts at OBI-WAN. QUI-GON deflects the bolts
back, and the STAPS blow up. One-two. OBI-WAN is exhausted and tries to
catch his breath.

OBI-WAN : Sorry, Master, the water fried my weapon.

OBI-WAN pulls out his burnt laser sword handle. QUI-GON inspects it, as JAR
JAR pulls himself out of the mud.

QUI-GON : You forgot to turn your power off again, didn't you?

OBI-WAN nods sheeplishly.

QUI-GON : (cont'd) It won't take long to recharge, but this is a lesson I
hope you've learned, my young Padawan.
OBI-WAN : Yes, Master.
JAR JAR : Yousa sav-ed my again, hey?
OBI-WAN : What's this?
QUI-GON : A local. Let's go, before more of those droids show up.
JAR JAR : Mure? Mure did you spake??!?

OBI-WAN and QUI-GON start to run. JAR JAR tries to keep up.

JAR JAR : (cont'd) Ex-squeeze me, but da moto grande safe place would be
Otoh Gunga. Tis where I grew up...Tis safe city.

They all stop.

QUI-GON : A city! (JAR JAR nods his head) Can you take us there?
JAR JAR : Ahhh, will...on second taut...no, not willy.
QUI-GON : No??!
JAR JAR : Iss embarrissing, boot... My afrai my've bean banished. My
forgoten der Bosses would do terrible tings to my. Terrible tings if my
goen back dare.

A PULSATING SOUND is heard in the distance.

QUI-GON : You hear that?

JAR JAR shakes his head yes.

QUI-GON : (cont'd) That's the sound of a thousand terrible things heading
this way...
OBI-WAN : When they find us, they will crush us, grind us into little
pieces, then blast us into oblivion!
JAR JAR : Oh! Yousa point is well seen. Dis way! Hurry!

JAR JAR turns and runs into the swamp.

EXT. NABOO SWAMP LAKE - TWILIGHT

QUI-GON, OBI-WAN and JAR JAR run into a murky lake and stop as JAR JAR
tries to catch his breath. The TRANSPORTS ARE HEARD in the distance.

QUI-GON : Much farther?
JAR JAR : Wesa goen underwater, okeyday?

QUI-GON and OBI-WAN pull out small capsule from their utility belts that
turn into breathing masks.

JAR JAR : (cont'd) My warning yous. Gungans no liken outlaunders. Don't
expict a wern welcome.
OBI-WAN : Don't worry, this has not been our day for warm welcomes.

JAR JAR jumps, does a double somersault with a twist, and dives into the
water.
Breath masks on, QUI-GON and OBI-WAN wade in after him.

EXT. NABOO LAKE - UNDERWATER

QUI-GON and OBI-WAN swim behind JAR JAR, who is very much at home in the
water. Down they swim into murky depths. In the distance the glow of Otoh
Gunga, an underwater city made up of large bubbles, becomes more distinct.
They approach the strange, art nouveau habitat. JAR JAR swims magically
through one of the bubble membranes, which seals behind him. OBI-WAN and
QUI-GON follow.

INT. OTOH GUNGA - CITY SQUARE

GUNGANS in the square scatter when they see the strange JEDI. Four GUARDS
armed with long electro-poles ride two-legged KAADUS into the square. The
GUARDS, led by CAPTAIN TARPALS, point their lethal poles at the dripping
trio.

JAR JAR : Heyo-dalee, Cap'n Tarpals, Mesa back!
CAPT. TARPALS : Noah gain, Jar Jar. Yousa goen tada Bosses. Yousa in big
dudu this time.

CAPT. TARPALS gives JAR JAR a slight zap with his power pole. JAR JAR jumps
and moves off, followed by the two JEDI.

JAR JAR : How wude.

INT. OTOH GUNGA - HIGH TOWER BOARD ROOM

The Bosses' Board Room has bubble walls, with small lighted fish swimming
around outside like moving stars. A long circular judge's bench filled with
GUNGAN OFFICIALS dominates the room. OBI-WAN and QUI-GON stand facing BOSS
NASS, who sits on a bench higher than the others.

BOSS NASS : Yousa cannot bees hair. Dis army of mackineeks up dare tis new
weesong!
QUI-GON : That droid army is about to attack the Naboo. We must warn them.
BOSS NASS : Wesa no like da Naboo! Un dey no like uss-ens. Da Naboo tink
day so smarty den us-ens. Day tink day brains so big.
OBI-WAN : After those droids take control of the surface, they will come
here and take control of you.
BOSS NASS : No, mesa no tink so. Mesa scant talkie witda Naboo, and no
nutten talkie it outlaunders. Dos mackineeks no comen here! Dey not know of
uss-en.
OBI-WAN : You and the Naboo form a symbiont circle. What happens to noe of
you will affect the other. You must understand this.
BOSS NASS : Wesa wish no nutten in yousa tings, outlaunder, and wesa no
care-n about da Naboo.
QUI-GON : (waves his hand) Then speed us on our way.
BOSS NASS : Wesa gonna speed yousaway.
QUI-GON : We need a transport.
BOSS NASS : Wesa give yousa una bongo. Da speedest way tooda Naboo tis goen
through da core. Now go.
QUI-GON : Thank you for your help. We go in peace.

QUI-GON and OBI-WAN turn to leave.

OBI-WAN : Master, whats a bongo?
QUI-GON : A transport, I hope.

The JEDI notice JAR JAR in chains to one side, waiting to hear his verdict.
QUI-GON stops. JAR JAR gives him a forlorn look.

JAR JAR : Daza setten yous up. Goen through da planet core is bad bombin!!
QUI-GON : Thank you, my friend.
JAR JAR : Ahhh...any hep hair would be hot.

JAR JAR's soulful look is counterpointed by a sheepish grin.

OBI-WAN : We are short of time, Master.
QUI-GON : We'll need a navigator to get us through the planet's core. This
Gungan my be of help.

QUI-GON walks bact to BOSS NASS.

QUI-GON : (cont'd) What is to become of Jar Jar Binks here?
BOSS NASS : Binkss brokeen the nocombackie law. Hisen to be pune-ished.
QUI-GON : He has been a great help to us. I hope the punishment will not be
too severe.
BOSS NASS : Pounded unto death.
JAR JAR : (grimacing) Oooooh...Ouch!

OBI-WAN looks concerned. QUI-GON is thinking.

QUI-GON : We need a navigator to get us through the planet's core. I have
saved Jar Jar Binks' life. He owes me what you call a "life.debt."
BOSS NASS : Binks. Yousa havena liveplay with thisen hisen?

JAR JAR nods and joins the JEDI. QUI-GON waves his hand.

QUI-GON : Your gods demand that his life belongs to me now.
BOSS NASS : Hisen live tis yos, outlauder. Begone wit him.
JAR JAR : Count mesa outta dis! Better dead here, den deader in da
core...Yee guds, whata mesa sayin?!

EXT. NABOO CITY - UNDERWATER - SUB (FX)

A strange little submarine propels itself away from the Otoh Gunga, leaving
the glow of the settlement in the distance.

INT. SUB COCKPIT - UNDERWATER

OBI-WAN in the co-pilots seat, JAR JAR guides the craft.

JAR JAR : Dis is nusen.
OBI-WAN : Master, why do you keep dragging these pathetic life forms along
with us?...Here, take over.
JAR JAR : Hey, ho? Where wesa goen??
QUI-GON : You're the navigator.
JAR JAR : Yo dreamen mesa hopen...,br QUI-GON : Just relax, the Force will
guide us...
JAR JAR : Ooooh, maxibig..."da Force"...Wellen, dat smells stinkowiff.

JAR JAR veers the craft to the left and turns the lights on. The coral
vistas are grand, fantastic, and wonderous.

OBI-WAN : Why were you banished, Jar Jar?
JAR JAR : Tis a long tale, buta small part wawdabe
mesa...ooooh...aaaa.....clumsy.
OBI-WAN : They banished you because you're clumsy?

As the little sub glides into the planet core, a large dark shape begins to
follow.

JAR JAR : Mesa cause-ed mabee one or duey lettal bitty axadentes...yud-say
boom da gasser, un crash Der Bosses heyblibber...den banished.

Suddenly there is a loud CRASH, and the little craft lurches to one side.
QUI-GON looks around and sees a huge, lumimnous OPEE SEA KILLER has hooked
them with its long gooey tongue.

QUI-GON : Full speed ahead.

Instead of full ahead, JAR JAR jams the controls into reverse. The sub
flies into the mouth of the creature.

JAR JAR : Oooops.
OBI-WAN : Give me the controls.

OBI-WAN takes over the controls and the OPEE SEA KILLER instantly releases
the sub from its mouth.

JAR JAR : Wesa free!

As the sub zooms away they see a larger set of jaws, munching on the
hapless KILLER. The jaws belong to the incredible SANDO AQUA MONSTER. The
lights on the tiny sub begin to flicker as they cruise deeper into the
gloom.

QUI-GON : There's always a bigger fish.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - BRIDGE

NUTE and RUNE stand before a hologram of DARTH SIDIOUS.

NUTE : The invasion is on schedule, My Lord.
DARTH SIDIOUS : Good. I have the Senate bogged down in procedures. By the
time this incident comes up for a vote, they will have no choice but to
accept your control of the system.
NUTE : The Queen has great faith the Senate will side with her.
DARTH SIDIOUS : Queen Amidala is yound and naive. You will find controlling
her will not be difficult. You have done well, Viceroy.
NUTE : Thank you, My Lord.

DARTH SIDIOUS fades away.

RUNE : You didn't tell him about the missing Jedi?
NUTE : No need to report that to him, until we have something to report.

INT. SUB COCKPIT - UNDERWATER

Sparks are flying, and water is leaking into the cabin. The sound of the
power drive drops.

OBI-WAN : .....we're losing power.

OBI-WAN is working with the sparking wires. JAR JAR panics.

QUI-GON : Stay calm. We're not in trouble yet.
JAR JAR : What yet? Monstairs out dare! Leak'n in here, all'n sink'n, and
nooooo power! You nutsen! WHEN YOUSA TINK WESA IN TROUBLE?!!!?
OBI-WAN : Power's back.

The lights flicker on, revealing an ugly COLO CLAW FISH right in front of
them.

JAR JAR : Monstairs back!

The large COLO CLAW FISH is surprised and rears back. The sub turns around
and speeds away.

JAR JAR : (cont'd) Wesa in trouble now??
QUI-GON : Relax.

QUI-GON puts his hand on JAR JAR's shoulder. JAR JAR relaxes into a coma.

OBI-WAN : You overdid it.

The COLO CLAW FISH leaps after the fleeing sub as it shoots out of the
tunnel and into the waiting jaws of the SANDO AQUA MONSTER.

OBI-WAN (cont'd) This is not good!

JAR JAR regains consciousness.
JAR JAR : Wesa dead yet?? Oie Boie!

JAR JAR's eyes bulge, and he faints again. The sub narrowly avoids the
deadly teeth of the AQUA MONSTER. The COLO CLAW FISH chasing them isn't so
lucky. It is munched in half by the larger predator. The little sub slips
away.

QUI-GON : Head for that outcropping.

EXT. THEED - MAIN ROAD INTO THEED - DAY (FX)

The long columns of the DROID ARMY move down the main road leading to
Theed, the Naboo capital.

EXT. THEED PLAZA - DAY (FX)

As the QUEEN watches helplessly from a window in the palace, a transport
carrying NUTE and RUNE lands in Theed Plaza. They exit the transport.

NUTE : Ah, victory!

INT. NABOO LAKE - UNDERWATER - SUB (FX)

The little sub continue to propel itself toward the surface, which is
brightly lit.

JAR JAR : Wesa dude it!

EXT. THEED - ESTUARY - DAY

Paradise. Billowing clouds frame a romantic body of water. There is a LOUD
RUSH OF BUBBLES, and a small sub bobs to the surface.
The current in the estuary begins to pull the sub backward into a fast
moving river. OBI-WAN switches off the two remaining bubble canopies.
QUI-GON stands up to look around. JAR JAR lets out a sigh of relief.

JAR JAR : Wesa safe now.
QUI-GON : Get this thing started.
JAR JAR : Dissen berry good. Hey?
OBI-WAN : What is it?

JAR JAR looks back to where they're drifting. He sees they are headed for a
huge waterfall.

JAR JAR : What!!?? Oie boie!

OBI-WAN tries to start the engine. The long props behind the sub slowly
begin to rotate. OBI-WAN struggles until finally, a few feet short of the
waterfall, the sub starts and is able to generate enough power to stop
drifting backward in the powerful current. The sub slowly moves forward. In
the background, QUI-GON takes a cable out of his belt. The engine coughs
and dies. They start drifting backward again. JAR JAR panics.

JAR JAR : (cont'd) Iyiiyi, wesa die'n here, hey!

QUI-GON shoots the thin cable, and it wraps itself around a railing on the
shore. The sub pulls the cable taut, and the little craft hangs
precariously over the edge of the waterfall.

QUI-GON : Come on...

OBI-WAN climbs out of the sub and pulls himself along the cable. QUI-GON
starts in after him.

QUI-GON : (cont'd) Come on, Jar Jar.
JAR JAR : No! Too scary!
OBI-WAN : Get up here!
JAR JAR : No a mighty no!

JAR JAR looks back and sees he is hanging over the waterfall.

JAR JAR : (cont'd) Oie boie...mesa comen. Mesa comen!

JAR JAR starts to climb out of the sub. OBI-WAN is on shore and helps to
pull QUI-GON out of the water.

OBI-WAN : That was close.
BATTLE DROID 3B3 : (O.S) Drop your weapons!

The TWO JEDI turn around to see a BATTLE DROID standing in front of them.
JAR JAR climbs up on shore between the JEDI.

BATTLE DROID 3B3 : I said drop your weapons

QUI-GON ignites his laser sword, and in a brief flash, the DROID is cut
down by the JEDI. A stray laser bolt hits the cable and the sub breaks
lose, crashing down the waterfall.
The JEDI move on. JAR JAR reluctantly follows and looks back at the mess.

JAR JAR : Whoa!!!

EXT. THEED - PALACE - DAY

The waterfalls of Theed sparkle in the noonday sun.

INT. THEED - PALACE THRONE ROOM - DAY

QUEEN AMIDALA, SIO BIBBLE, and FIVE OF HER HANDMAIDENS (EIRTAE, YANE,
PADME, RABE, SACHE) are surrounded by TWENTY DROIDS. CAPTAIN PANAKA and
FOUR NABOO GUARDS are also held at gunpoint. NUTE and RUNE stand in the
middle of the room.

BIBBLE : ...how will you explain this invasion to the Senate?
NUTE : The Naboo and the Federation will forge a treaty that will
legitimize our occupation here. I've been assured it will be ratified by
the Senate.
AMIDALA : I will not co-operate.
NUTE : Now, now, your Highness. You are not going to like what we have in
store for your people. In time, their suffering will persuade you to see
our point of view. Commander. (OOM-9 steps forward) Process them.
OOM-9 : Yes, sir! (turns to his sergeant) Take them to Camp Four.

The SERGEANT marches the GROUP out of the throne room.

EXT. PALACE - PLAZA - DAY

QUEEN AMIDALA, PADME, EIRTA, YANE, RABE, SACHE, CAPTAIN PANAKA, SIO
BIBBLE,
and FOUR GUARDS are led out of the palace by ten BATTLE DROIDS. The plaza
is filled with tanks and BATTLE DROIDS, which they pass on their way to the
detention camp. Unbeknownst to them, QUI-GON, OBI-WAN, and JAR JAR sneak
across on a walkway above the plaza and jump from a balcony to begin an
attack to rescue the QUEEN.

FOUR BATTLE DROIDS are instantly cut down. MORE DROIDS move forward and are
also cut down by the JEDIS' flashing lightsabres until there is only the
DROID SERGEANT left. The SERGEANT starts to run but is pulled back to
QUI-GON by the Force, until finally he is dispatched by the JEDI.

JAR JAR : Yousa guys bombad!

QUEEN AMIDALA and the OTHERS are amazed. JAR JAR is getting used to this.
They move between two buildings.

QUI-GON : Your Highness, we are the Ambassadors, for the Supreme
Chancellor.
BIBBLE : Your negotiations seem to have failed, Ambassador.
QUI-GON : The negotiations never took place. Your Highness, we must make
contact with the republic.

CAPTAIN PANAKA steps forward.

CAPT. PANAKA : They've knocked out all our communications.
QUI-GON : Do you have transports?
CAPT. PANAKA : In the main hanger. This way.

THEY disappear down an alleyway as the ALARMS are sounded

INT. CENTRAL HANGER - HALLWAY - DAY

CAPTAIN PANAKA cracks open a side door to the central hanger. QUI-GON looks
in over his shoulder. OBI-WAN, JAR JAR, and the rest of the group are
behind him. They see several Naboo spacecraft guarded by about FIFTY BATTLE
DROIDS. ALARMS can be heard in the distance.

CAPT. PANAKA : There are too many of them.
QUI-GON : That won't be a problem. (to Amidala) Your Highness, under the
circumstances, Isuggest you come to Coruscant with us.
AMIDALA : Thank you, Ambassador, but my place is here with my people.
QUI-GON : They will kill you if you stay.
BIBBLE : They wouldn't dare.
CAPT. PANAKA : They need her to sign a treaty to make this invasion of
theirs legal. They can't afford to kill her.
QUI-GON : The situation here is not what it seems. There is something else
behind all this, Your Highness. There is no logic in the Federation's move
here. My feelings tell me they will destroy you.
BIBBLE : Please, Your Highness, reconsider. Our only hope is for the Senate
to side with us... Senator Palpatine will need your help.
CAPT. PANAKA : Getting past their blockade is impossible, Your Highness.
Any attempt to escape will be dangerous.
BIBBLE : Your Highness, I will stay here and do what I can...They will have
to retain the Council of Governors in order to maintain control. But you
must leave...

The QUEEN turns to PADME and EIRTAE.

AMIDALA : Either choice presents a great risk...to all of us...
PADME : We are brave, Your Highness.
QUI-GON : If you are to leave, Your Highness, it must be now.
AMIDALA : Then, I will plead our case before the Senate. (to Bibble) Be
careful, Governor.

INT. CENTRAL HANGER - DAY

The door opens to the main hanger. QUI-GON, OBI-WAN, JAR JAR, CAPTAIN
PANAKA, TWO GUARDS, and THREE HANDMAIDENS (PADME, EIRTAE, RABE),
followed
by QUEEN AMIDALA, head for a sleek chrome spacecraft. SIO BIBBLE, YANE and
SACHE stay behind. The HANDMAIDENS begin to cry.

CAPT. PANAKA : We need to free those pilots.

CAPTAIN PANAKA points to TWENTY GUARDS, GROUND CREW, and PILOTS held in a
corner by SIX BATTLE DROIDS.

OBI-WAN : I'll take care of that. OBI-WAN heads toward the group of
captured pilots.

QUI-GON and the QUEEN, CAPTAIN PANAKA, JAR JAR, and the rest Of the GROUP
approach the GUARDS at the ramp of the Naboo craft.

GUARD DROID : Where are you going?
QUI-GON : I'm Ambassador for the Supreme Chancellor, and I'm taking those
people to Coruscant.
DROID GUARD : You're under arrest!

The DROID GUARD draws his weapon, but before any of the DROIDS can fire,
they are cut down. OTHER GUARDS run to their aid. OBI-WAN attacks the
GUARDS around the PILOTS. QUI-GON stands, fighting off DROIDS as the OTHERS
rush on board the spacecraft. OBI-WAN, the FREED PILOTS (including RIC
OLIE), GUARDS and GROUND CREW MEMBERS rush on board the ship. The OTHER
PILOTS and GUARDS race to SIO BIBBLR. After everyone has made it onto the
ship, QUI-GONjumps on board. ALARMS sound. MORE DROIDS rush into the hanger
and fire as the ship takes off.

EXT. THEED - HANGER ENTRY - DAY (FX)

The ship exits the hanger. BATTLE DROIDS standing in the hanger shoot at
them.

EXT. SPACE (FX)

The sleek spacecraft speeds away from the planet of Naboo and heads for the
deadly Federation blockade.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - COCKPIT

The PILOT, RIC OLIE, navigates toward the massive battleship, QUI-GON and
CAPTAIN PANAKA watch.

RIC OLIE : ....our communications are still jammed.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - DROID HOLD

JAR JAR is led into a low, cramped doorway by OBI-WAN.

OBI-WAN : Now stay here, and keep out of trouble.

OBI-WAN closes the door. JAR JAR looks around and sees a long row of five
short, dome-topped ASTRO DROIDS (R-2 units). The all look alike, except for
thier paint color, and they all seem to be shut down.

JAR JAR : Ello, boyos. (no response) Disa wanna longo trip...hey?

JAR JAR taps a bright red R-2 UNIT on the head, and its head pops up a bit.
He lets out a gasp as he lifts the head.

JAR JAR : (Cont'd) Tis opens?...Oooops! Many springs and things come flying
out.

JAR JAR quickly closes it again, very embarrassed.

JAR JAR : (Cont'd) Yoi! Just yoken!
RIC OLIE : Powers back! That little droid did it. He bypassed the main
power drive. Deflector shield up, at maximum.

The lone BLUE DROID finishes his repairs and goes back into the ship. The
Naboo spacecraft races away from the Federation battleship.

RIC OLIE : There's not enough power to get us to Coruscant...the hyperdrive
is leaking.
QUI-GON : We'll have to land somewhere to refuel and repair the ship.

QUI-GON studies a star chart on a monitor.

OBI-WAN : Here, Master. Tatooine... It's small, out of the way, poor... The
Trade Federation has no presence there.
CAPT. PANAKA : How can you be sure?
QUI-GON : It's controlled by the Hutts...
CAPT. PANAKA : The Hutts??
OBI-WAN : It's risky...but there's no alternative.
CAPT. PANAKA : You can't take Her Royal Highness there! The Hutts are
gangsters... If they discovered her...
QUI-GON : ...It would be no different than if we landed on a system
controlled by the Federation...except the Hutts aren't looking for her,
which gives us an advantage.

CPATAIN PANAKA takes a deep breath in frustration.

EXT. SPACE - NABOO SPACECRAFT (FX)

The Naboo spacecraft races away.

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - CONFERENCE ROOM

NUTE and RUNE sit around a conference table with a hologram of DARTH
SIDIOUS.

NUTE : We control all the cities in the North and are searching for any
other settlements...
DARTH SIDIOUS : Destroy all high-ranking officials,
Viceroy...slowly...quietly. And Queen Amidala, has she signed the treaty?
NUTE : She has disappeared, My Lord. One Naboo cruiser got pat the
blockade.
DARTH SIDIOUS : Viceroy, find her! I want that treaty signed.
NUTE : My Lord, it's impossible to locate the ship. It's out of our range.
DARTH SIDIOUS : ...not for a Sith...

A second SITH LORD appears behind DARTH SIDIOUS.

DARTH SIDIOUS : (Cont'd) ...Viceroy, this is my apprentice. Lord Maul. He
will find your lost ship.
NUTE : Yes, My Lord. The hologram fades off.
NUTE : (Cont'd) This is getting out of hand...now there are two of them.
RUNE : We should not have made this bargain. What will happen when the Jedi
become aware of these Sith Lords?

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - QUEENS CHAMBERS

QUI-GON, OBI-WAN, CAPTAIN PANAKA, and the LITTLE BLUE DROID stand before
QUEEN AMIDALA and her THREE HANDMAIDENS, PADME, EIRTAE and RABE.

CAPT. PANAKA : ...An extremely well put together little droid. Without a
doubt, it saved the ship, as well as our lives.
AMIDALA : It is to be commended...what is its number?

The LITTLE BLUE DROID lets out a series of bleeps.CAPTAIN PANAKA leans over
and scrapes some dirt off of the side of the DROID and read the number:

CAPT. PANAKA : R2-D2, Your Highness.
AMIDALA : Thank you, Artoo Detoo. You have proven to be very loyal...Padme!

PADME bows before the QUEEN.

AMIDALA : (Cont'd) Clean this droid up the best you can. It deserves our
gratitude...(to Panaka) Continue, Captain.

CAPTAIN PANAKA looks nervously to OBI-WAN and QUI-GON.

QUI-GON : Yor Highness, we are heading for a remote planet called Tatooine.
It is a system far beyond the reach of the Trade Federation. There we will
be able to make needed repairs, then travel on to Coruscant.
CAPTAIN PANAKA : Your Highness, Tatooine is very dangerous. It's controlled
by an alliance of gangs called the Hutts. I do not agree with the Jedi on
this.
QUI-GON : You must trust my judgement, Your Highness.

AMIDALA and PADME exchange looks. PADME moves next to the DROID.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - MAIN AREA

PADME sits in the Main Area, cleaning R2-D2, the brave little Astra Droid.
JAR JAR pops out of an open door.

JAR JAR : Hidoe!

Both PADME and ARTOO jump and let out a little SCREAM. The Gungan is
embarrassed that he frightened them.

JAR JAR : (Cont'd) Sorry, nomeanen to scare yousa.
PADME : That's all right.
JAR JAR : I scovered oily back dare. Needen it?
PADME : Thank you. This little guy is quite a mess.

JAR JAR hands PADME the oil can.

JAR JAR : Mesa Ja Ja Binksss... PADME : I'm Padme, I attend Her Highness,
You're a Gungan, aren't you? (Jar Jar nods) How did you end up here with
us?
JAR JAR : Me no know...mesa day starten pitty okeyday witda brisky morning
munchen. Den boom....getten berry skeered, un grabbed dat Jedi, and before
mesa knowen it...pow! Mesa here. (he shrugs)...getten berry berry skeered.

ARTOO BEEPS a sympathetic beep.

INT. ANBOO SPACECRAFT - COCKPIT

OBI-WAN, QUI-GON, and CAPTAIN PANAKA watch over RIC OLIE'S shoulder. A
large yellow planet appears directly ahead. RIC OLIE searches his scopes.

OBI-WAN : Tahyt's it. Tatooine.
RIC OLIE : There's a settlement...a spaceport, looks like.
QUI-GON : Land near the outskirts. We don't want to attract any attention.

EXT. TATOOINE - SPACE (FX)

The ship heads toward the planet of Tatooine.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - NABOO SPACECRAFT - DAY (FX)

The Naboo spacecraft lands in the desert in a swirl of dust. The spaceport
of Mos Espa is seen in the distance.

EXT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - MAIN AREA

OBI-WAN is hoisting the hyperdrive out of a floor panel. JAR JAR rushes up
to him and falls to his knees.

JAR JAR : Obi-Wan, sire, pleeese, no mesa go!
OBI-WAN : Sorry, Qui-Gon's right. You'll make things less obvious.

JAR JAR walks back to ARTOO in the hallway as QUI-GON (dressed as a farmer)
enters the main area.

OBI-WAN : (Cant'd) The Hyperdrive generator is gone. We will need a new
one.

QUI-GON moves closer to OBI-WAN and speaks quietly to him.

QUI-GON : Don't let them send ant transmissions. Be wary...I sense a
disturbance in the Force.
OBI-WAN : I fell it also, Master.

QUI-GON goes into the hallway to meet up with ARTOO and JAR JAR. They head
to the exit ramp.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - SPACESHIP - DAY

They start their trek across the desert toward the city of Mos Espa. In the
distance, a strange looking caravan makes its way toward the spaceport.

JAR JAR : Dis sun doen murder tada skin.

From the spaceship, CAPTAIN PANAKA and PADME run toward them.

CAPT. PANAKA : Wait!

QUI-GON stops as they catch up. PADME is dresses in rough peasant's garb.

CAPT. PANAKA : (Cont'd) Her Highness commands you to take her handmaiden
with you. She wishes for her to observe the local...
QUI-GON : No more commands from Her Highness today, Captain. This spaceport
is not going to be pleasant...
CAPT. PANAKA : The Queen wishes it. She is curious about this planet.
PADME : I've been trained in defense... I can take care of myself.
CAPT. PANAKA : Don't make me go back and tell her you refuse.
QUI-GON : I don't have time to argue. But this is not a good idea. Stay
close to me.

He gives PADME a stern look.

EXT. MOS ESPA - STREET - DAY

The little GROUP walks down the main street of Mos Espa. They pass
dangerous looking citizens of all types. PADME looks around in awe at this
exotic enviroment.

QUI-GON : ...moisture farms for the most part, but also a few indigenous
tribes and scavengers. The few spaceports like this one are havens for
those who do not wish to be found...
PADME : ....like us. JAR JAR is in a constant state of panic.

ARTOO whistles along, with perfect confidence.

JAR JAR : Dissen berry berry bad. (steps in ooze)
Ooooh...icky...icky...goo.

EXT. MOS ESPA - JUNK DEALER PLAZA - DAY

The GROUP comes to a little plaza surrounded by several junk spaceship
dealers.

QUI-GON : We'll try one of the smaller dealers.

They head for a little junk shop that has a huge pile of broken spaceships
stacked up behind it.

INT. WATTO'S JUNK SHOP - DAY

QUI-GON, JAR JAR, PADME, and ARTOO enter the dingy junk shop and are
greeted by WATTO, a pudgy blue alien who flies on short little wings like a
hummingbird.

WATTO : (subtitled) Hi chuba da naga? (What do you want?)
QUI-GON : I need parts for a J-type 327 Nubian.
WATTO : Ah yes, ah yes. Nubian. We have lots of that. What kinda junk?
(subtitled) Peedenkel! Naba dee unko (Boy, get in here! Now!)
QUI-GON : My droid here has a readout of what I need.

A disheveled boy, ANAKIN SKYWALKER, runs in from the junk yard. He is about
nine years old, very dirty, and dressed in rags. WATTO raises a hand, and
ANAKIN flinches.

WATTO : (subtitled) Coona tee-tocky malia? (What took you so long?)
ANAKIN : (subtitled) Mel tassa cho-passa... (I was cleaning the bin like
you...)
WATTO : (subtitled) Chut-Chut! Ganda doe wallya. (Never mind! Watch the
store) Me dwana no bata. (I've got some selling to do here.) (to Gui-Gon)
Soooo, let me take- a thee out back. Ni you'll find what you need.

ARTOO and QUI-GON follow WATTO toward the junk yard, leaving JAR JAR with
PADME and the young boy ANAKIN. JAR JAR picks up a gizmo, trying to figure
out its purpose. QUI-GON takes the part out of his hand and puts it back.

QUI-GON : Don't touch anything.

JAR JAR makes a rude face to QUI-GON's back and sticks out his long tongue.
ANAKIN sits on the counter, pretending to clean a part, staring at PADME.
She is the most beautiful creaure he has ever seen in his life. PADME is a
little embarrassed by his stare, but she musters up an amused smile.
Finally, he gets the courage to speak.

ANAKIN : Are you an angel?
PADME : What?
ANAKIN : An angel. I've heard the deep space pilots talk about them. They
live on the Moons of Iego I thimk. They are the most beautiful creatures in
the universe. They are good and kind, and so pretty they make even the most
hardened spice pirate cry.

PADME looks at him, not knowing what to say. PADME : I've never heard of
angels.

ANAKIN : You must be one...maybe you just don't know it.
PADME : You're a funny little boy. How do you know so much?
ANAKIN : Since I was very little, three, I think. My Mom and I were sold to
Gardulla the Hutt, but she lost us, betting on the Podraces, to Watto,
who's a lot better master than Gardulla, I think.
PADME : You're...a slave?

ANAKIN looks at PADME defiantly.

ANAKIN : I am a person! My name is Anakin.
PADME : I'm sorry. I don't fully understand. (looking around)This is a
strange world to me.

ANAKIN studies her intently.

ANAKIN : You are a strange girl to me.

JAR JAR pushes the nose on what appears to be a LITTLE DROID, and it
instantly comes to life, grows legs and arms, and starts marching around,
knocking over everything. JAR JAR hold on but can't stop it.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Hit the nose!

JAR JAR hits the nose, and the DROID collapses back into its original
state. ANAKIN and PADME laugh. ANAKIN watches PADME straighten her hair.

EXT. WATTO'S JUNK YARD - BEHIND SHOP - DAY

WATTO reads a small portable monitor he is holding. He stands before a
hyperdrive.

WATTO : ...Here it is...a T-14 hyperdrive generator!! Thee in luck, I'm the
only one hereabouts who has one...but thee might as well buy a new ship. It
would be cheaper, I think...Sying of which, how's thee going to pay for all
this?
QUI-GON : I have 20,000 Republic dataries.
WATTO : Republic credits?!? Republic credits are no good out here. I need
something more real...
QUI-GON : I don't have anything else. (raising his hand) But credits will
do fine.
WATTO : No they won'ta. QUI-GON, using his mind power, waves his hand
again.
QUI-GON : Credits will do fine.
WATTO : No, they won'ta. What you think you're some kinda Jedi, waving your
hand around like that? I'm a Toydarian. Mind tricks don'ta work on me-only
money. No money, no parts! No deal! And no one else has a T-14 hyperdrive,
I promise you that.

INT. WATTO'S JUNK SHOP - DAY

JAR JAR pulls a part out of a stack of parts to inspect it, and they all
come tumblimg down. He struggles to catch them, only to knock more down.
ANAKIN and PADME are oblivious.

ANAKIN : ...wouldn't have lasted long if I weren't so good at fixing
things. I'm making my own droid...

QUI-GON hurries into the shop, followed by ARTOO. QUI-GON : We're leaving.
JAR JAR follows QUI-GON. PADME gives ANAKIN a loving look.

PADME : I'm glad I met you,....ah...
ANAKIN : ...Anakin.
PADME : Anakin.
ANAKIN : Anakin Skywalker.
PADME : Padme Naberrie.

PADME turns, and ANAKIN looks sad as he watches her leave.

ANAKIN : I'm glad I met you too.

WATTO enters the junk yard, shaking his head.

WATTO : (subtitled) Ootmians! Tinka me chasa hopoe ma booty na nolia.
(Outlanders! They think because we live so far from the center, we don't
know nothing.)
ANAKIN : (subtitled) La lova num botaffa. (They seemed nice to me.) WATTO :
(subtitled) Fweepa niaga. Tolpa da bunky dunko. (Clean the racks, then you
can go home.)

ANAKIN lets out a "yipee" and runs out the back.

EXT. MOS ESPA - STREET - ALCOVE - DAY

QUI-GON, ARTOO, JAR JAR, and PADME have found a quiet spot between two
buildings. The busy street beyond is filled with dangerous looking
creatures. QUI-GON is talking on his com-link, while JAR JAR nervously
watches the street. OBI-WAN is in the main hold of the Naboo craft.

QUI-GON : ...Obi-Wan, you're sure there isn't anything of value left on
board?
OBI-WAN : (V.O) A few containers of supplies, the Queen's wardrobe, maybe.
Not enough for you to barter with. Not in the ammounts you're talking
about.
QUI-GON : All right. Another solution will present itself. I'll check back.

QUI-GON puts his comlink away and starts out into the main street. JAR JAR
grabs his arm.

JAR JAR : Noah gain...da beings hereabouts cawazy. Wesa be robbed un
crunched.
QUI-GON : Not likely. We have nothing of value, that's our problem.

EXT. MOS ESPA - STREET - MARKET - DAY

QUI-GON, PADME, JAR JAR, and ARTOO move out into the street. JAR JAR is
walking behind the others. They walk by an outdoor cafe filled with a rough
gang of aliens, one of which is especially ugly, SEBULBA, a spider-like
creature. JAR JAR stops for a moment in front of a stall selling dead frogs
hanging on a wire. He looks around to see if anyone is looknig, then sticks
out his tongue, and gets hold of one, pulling it into his mouth.
Unfortunately, the frog is tied tightly to the wire. The vendor suddenly
appears.

VENDOR : Hey, that will be seven truguts!!

JAR JAR opens his mouth in surprise, and the frog snaps away, ricochets
around the market, and lands in Sebulba's soup, splashing him. As JAR JAR
moves away from the VENDOR, SEBULBA jumps up on the table and grabs the
hapless Gungan.

SEBULBA : (subtitled) Chuba!! (You!!) JAR JAR : Who, mesa?? SEBULBA :
(subtitled) Ni chuba na?? (Is this yours??)

SEBULBA holds the frog up to the Gungan threateningly. SEVERAL OTHER
CREATURES start to gather. SEBULBA shoves JAR JAR to the ground. The Gungan
desperately tries to scramble to safety.

JAR JAR : (to himself) Why mesa always da one??
ANAKIN : (V.O) Because you're afraid.

JAR JAR turns to see ANAKNI pushing his way next to him. The boy stands up
to SEBULBA in a very self-assured way.

ANAKIN : (subtitled) Chess ko, Sebulba...Coo wolpa tooney rana. (Careful,
Sebulba...This one's very connected.)

SEBULBA stops his assault on JAR JAR and turns to ANAKIN.

SEBULBA : (subtitled) Tooney rana nu pratta dunko, shag. (Connected?? Whada
you mean, slave?)
ANAKIN : (subtitled) Oh da Hutt...cha porko ootman geesa...me teesa rodda
co pana pee choppa chawa. (As in Hutt...big time outlander, this one... I'd
hate to see you diced before we race again.)
SEBULBA : (subtitled) Neek me chowa, wermo, mo killee ma klounkee(Next time
we race, wermo, it will be the end of you!) Una noto wo shag, me wompity du
pom pom. (If you weren't a slave, I'd squash you right now.)

SEBULBA turns away.

ANAKIN : (subtitled) Eh, chee bana do mullee ra. (Yeah, it'd be a pity if
you had to pay for me.)

QUI-GON, PADME and ARTOO arrive.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Hi! Your buddy here was about to be turned into orange
goo. He picked a fight with a Dug. An especially dangerous Dug called
Sebulba.
JAR JAR : Nosir, nosir. Mesa hate crunchen. Dat's da last ting mesa wanten.
QUI-GON : Nevertheless, the boy is right...you were heading for trouble.
Thank you, my young friend.

PADME looks at ANAKINB and smiles; he smiles back. They start walking down
the crowded street.

JAR JAR : Mesa doen nutten!
ANAKIN : Fear attracts the fearful. He was trying to overcome his fear by
squashing you...be less afraid.
PADME : And that works for you.
ANAKIN : To a point. (he smiles)

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - SPACESHIP - DAY

OBI-WAN stands in front of the Naboo spacecraft as the wind picks up and
begins to whip at his robe. CAPTAIN PANAKA exits the ship and joins him.

OBI-WAN : This storm's going to slow them down.
CAPT. PANAKA : It looks pretty bad. We'd better seal the ship.

CAPTAIN PANAKA'S comlink sounds off.

CAPT. PANAKA : (Cont'd) Yes? CAPT. PANAKA : We'll be right there.

EXT. MOS ESPA - STREET - FRUIT STAND - DAY

ANAKIN and the GROUP stop at a fruit stand run by a jolly, but very poor,
old lady named JIRA.

ANAKIN : How are you feeling today, Jira?
JIRA : The heat's never been kind to me, you know, Annie!
ANAKIN : Guess what? I've found that cooling unit I've been searching for.
It's pretty beat up, but I'll have it fixed up for you in no time, I
promise.
JIRA : You're a fine boy, Annie.
ANAKIN : I'll take four pallies today. (to Padme) You'll like these...

ANAKIN reaches in his pocket and comes up with three coins. He drops one.
QUI-GON picks it up, revealing for a moment, his lightsabre.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Whoops, I thought I had more...Make thgat three, I'm not
hungry.

The wind picks up. SHOP OWNERS are starting to close up their shops as JIRA
gives them their pallies.

JIRA : Gracious, my bones are aching...storm's coming on, Annie. You'd
better get home quick.
ANAKIN : (to QUI-GON) Do you have shelter?
QUI-GON : We'll hed back to our ship.
ANAKIN : Is it far?
PADME : On the outskirts.
ANAKIN : You'll never reach the outskirts in time...sandstorms are very,
very dangerous. Come with me. Hurry!

The GROUP follows ANAKIN as he rushes down the windy street.

EXT. MOS ESPA - SLAVE QUARTERS - STREET - SANDSTORM - DAY

The wind is blowing hard as QUI-GON, JAR JAR, and PADME follow ANAKIN down
the street and into a slave hovel.

INT. ANAKIN'S HOVEL - MAIN ROOM - DAY

QUI-GON, JAR JAR, ARTOO, and PADME enter a small living space.

ANAKIN : Mom! Mom! I'm home.
JAR JAR : Dissen cozy.

Anakin's mother, SHMI SKYWALKER, a warm, friendly woman of forty, enters
from her work area and is startled to see the room full of people.

SHMI : Oh, my!! Annie, what's this?
ANAKIN : These are my friends, Mom. This is Padme, and...gee, I don't know
any of your names.
QUI-GON : I'm Qui-Gon Jinn, and this is Jar Jar Binks. ARTOO lets out a
little beep.
PADME : ...and our droid, Artoo-Detoo.
ANAKIN : I'm building a droid. You wanna see?
SHMI : Anakin! Why are they here?
ANAKIN : A sandstorm, Mom. Listen.

The wind HOWLS outside.

QUI-GON : Your son was kind enough to offer us shelter.
ANAKIN : Come on! Let me show you Threepio!

ANAKIN leads PADME into the other room. ARTOO follows, beeping all the way.
QUI-GON takes five small capsules from his utility belt and hands them to
SHMI.

QUI-GON : I have enough food for a meal.
SHMI : Oh, tank you. Thank you so much. I'm sorry if I was abrupt. I'll
never get used to Anakin's surprises.
QUI-GON : He's a very special boy. SHMI looks at him as if he's discovered
a secret.
SHMI : Yes, I know.

INT. ANAKIN'S HOVEL - BEDROOM - DAY

ANAKIN shows off his ANDROID, which is lying on his workbench. There is one
eye in the head; the body, arms, and legs have no outer coverings.

ANAKIN : Isn't he great?! He's not finished yet.
PADME : He's wonderful!
ANAKIN : You reall like him? He's a protocol droid...to help Mom. Watch!

ANAKIN pushes a switch, and the DROID sits up. Anakin rushes around, grabs
an eye and puts it in one of the sockets.

THREEPIO : How do you do, I am See-Threepio, Human Cyborg Relations. How
might I serve you?
PADME : He's perfect.
ANAKIN : When the storm is over, you can see my racer. I'm building a
Podracer!

PADME smiles at his enthusiasm. ARTOO lets out a flurry of beeps and
whistles.

THREEPIO : I beg your pardon....what do you mean I'm naked?

ARTOO BEEPS

THREEPIO : (Cont'd) My parts are showing? Oh, my goodness. How
embarrassing!

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - QUEENS CHAMBERS

AMIDALA, EIRTAE, RABE, and OBI-WAN watch a very bad transmission of a SIO
BIBBLE hologram.

BIBBLE : ...cut off all food supplies until you return...the death toll is
catastrophic...we must bow to their wishes, Your Highness...Please tell us
what to do! If you can hear us, Your Highness, you must contact me...

AMIDALA looks upset...almost nervous.

OBI-WAN : It's a trick. Send no reply... Send no transmission of any kind.

INT. ANAKIN'S HOVEL - MAIN ROOM - DAY

QUI-GON listens to his comlink. OBI-WAN is in the cockpit.

OBI-WAN : ...the Queen is upset...but absolutly no reply was sent.
QUI-GON : It sounds like bait to establish a connection trace.
OBI-WAN : What if it is true and the people are dying?
QUI-GON : Either way, we're running out of time.

EXT. CORUSCANT - BALCONY OVERLOOKING CITY - NIGHT

DARTH SIDIOUS and DARTH MAUL look out over the vast city.

DARTH MAUL : Tatooine is sparsely populated. If the trace was correct, I
will find them quickly, Master.
DARTH SIDIOUS : Move against the Jedi first...you will then have no
difficulty taking the Queen back to Naboo, where she will sign the treaty.
DARTH MAUL : At last we will reveal ourselves to the Jedi. At last we will
have revenge.
DARTH SIDIOUS : You have been well trained, my young apprentice, they will
be no match for you. It is too late for them to stop us now. Everything is
going as planned. The Republic will soon be in my command.

The hologram of DARTH MAUL fades off as DARTH SIDIOUS looks out over the
city. EXT. MOS ESPA - SANDSTORM - DAY

The giant sandstorm engulfs the town, including the Naboo spaceship on the
outskirts of the city center, where Watto's ship is; and the slave
quarters, where drifts of sand begin building up against Anakin's house.

INT. ANAKIN'S HOVEL - MAIN ROOM - DAY

QUI-GON, ANAKIN, SHMI, JAR JAR, and PADME are seated around a makeshift
table, having dinner as the wind howls outside.
JAR JAR slurps his soup rather loudly. Everyone looks at him. He turns a
little brighter red.

SHMI : All slaves have transmitters placed inside their bodies somewhere.
ANAKIN : I've been working on a scanner to try and locate them, but no
luck.
SHMI : Any attempt to escape...
ANAKIN : ...and they blow you up...poof!

PADME and JAR JAR are horrified.

JAR JAR : How wude.
PADME : I can't believe there is still slavery in the galaxy. The
Republic's anti-slavery laws...
SHMI : The Republic doesn't exist out here...we must survive on our own.

An awkward silence. ANAKIN attempts to end the embarrassment.

ANAKIN : Have you ever seen a Podrace?

PADME shakes her head no. She notices the concern of SHMI. JAR JAR snatches
some food from a bowl at the other end of the table with his tongue.
QUI-GON gives him a dirty look.

QUI-GON : They have Podracing on Malastare. Very fast, very dangerous.
ANAKIN : I'm the only human who can do it.

SHMI looks askance at her son.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Mom, what? I'm not bragging. It's true. Watto says he's
never heard of a human doing it.
QUI-GON : You must have Jedi reflexes if you race Pods.

ANAKIN smiles. JAR JAR attempts to snare another bit of food from the bowl
with his tongue, but QUI-GON, in a flash, grabs it between his thumb and
forefinger. JAR JAR is startled.

QUI-GON : (Cont'd) Don't do that again.

JAR JAR tries to acknowledge with some silly mumbling. QUI-GON lets go of
the tongue, and it snaps back into JAR JAR's mouth.

ANAKIN : I...I was wondering...something...
QUI-GON : What?
ANAKIN : Well, ahhh...you're a Jedi Knight, aren't you?
QUI-GON : What makes you think that?
ANAKIN : I saw your laser sword. Only Jedi carry that kind of weapon.

QUI-GON leans back and slowly smiles.

QUI-GON : Perhaps I killed a Jedi and stole it from him.
ANAKIN : I don't think so... No one can kill a Jedi Knight.
QUI-GON : I wish that were so...
ANAKIN. I had a dream I was a Jedi. I came back here and freed all the
slaves...have you come to free us?
QUI-GON : No, I'm afraid not...
ANAKIN : I think you have...why else would you be here?

QUI-GON thinks for a moment.

QUI-GON : I can see there's no fooling you...(leans forward) You mustn't
let anyone know about us...we're on our way to Coruscant, the central
system in the Republic, on a very important mission, and it must be kept
secret.
ANAKIN : Coruscant...wow...how did you end up here in the outer rim?
PADME : Our ship was damaged, and we're stranded here until we can repair
it.
ANAKIN : I can help! I can fix anything!
QUI-GON : I believe you can, but our first job is to aquire the parts we
need...
JAR JAR : Wit no-nutten mula to trade.
PADME : These junk dealers must have a weakness of some kind.
SHMI : Gambling. Everything here revolves around betting on those awful
races.
QUI-GON : Podracing... Greed can be a powerful ally.. if it's used
properly.
ANAKIN : I've built a racer! It's the fastest ever...There's a big race
tomorrow, on Boonta Eve. You could enter my pod. It's all but finished...
SHMI : Anakin, settle down. Watto won't let you...
ANAKIN : Watto doesn't know I've built it. (to Qui-Gon) You could make him
think it's your's, and you could get him to let me pilot it for you.

QUI-GON looks to SHMI. She is upset.

SHMI : I don't want you to race, Annie...It's awful. I die every time Watto
makes you do it.

ANAKIN : But Mom, I love it...and they need help...they're in trouble. The
prize money would more than pay for the parts they need. JAR JAR : Wesa ina
pitty bad goo.
GUI-GON : Your mother's right. Is there anyone friendly to the Republic who
might be able to help us?

SHMI shakes her head no.

ANAKIN : We have to help them, Mom...you said that the biggest problem in
the universe is no one helps each other...
SHMI : Anakin, don't...

JAR JAR belches. There is silence for a moment as they eat.

PADME : I'm sure Qui-Gon doesn't want to put your son in danger. We will
find another way...
SHMI : No, Annie's right, there is no other way... I may not like it, but
he can help you...he was meant to help you.
ANAKIN : Is that a yes? That is a yes!

The storm continues to rage outside the slave hovel.

EXT. MOS ESPA - JUNK DEALER PLAZA - DAY

The storm has passed. VENDORS and STREET PEOPLE clean up the mess and
rebuild their food stalls. JAR JAR sits on a box in front of Watto's parts
shop, watching all the activity with growing nervousness. ARTOO is standing
next to him. PADME stops QUI-GON as he is about to enter the shop.

PADME : Are you sure about this? Trusting our fate to a boy we hardly know.
The Queen will not approve.
QUI-GON : The Queen does not need to know.
PADME : Well, I don't approve.

QUI-GON turns and starts into the shop.

INT. WATTO'S JUNK SHOP - DAY

WATTO and ANAKIN are in the middle of an animated discussion in Huttese.

WATTO : Patta go bolla!
ANKAIN : No batta!
WATTO : Pedunky. Maa kee cheelya.
ANAKIN : Bayno, Bayno!

QUI-GON walks in, and WATTO and ANAKIN join him.

WATTO : The boy tells me you wanta sponser hi insa race. You can't afford
parts. How can you do this? Not on Republic credits, I think. (he laughs)
QUI-GON : My ship will be the entry fee.

QUI-GON pulls a small object that looks like a watch out of his pocket, and
a hologram of the Naboo spacecraft appears about a foot long in front of
WATTO. He studies it.

WATTO : Not bad...not bad...a Nubian.
QUI-GON : It's in good order, except for the parts we need.
WATTO : ...but what would the boy ride? He smashed up my Pod in the last
race. It will take some time to fix it.

ANAKIN is embarrassed and steps forward.

ANAKIN : Ahhhh....it wasn't my fault really...Sebulba flashed me with his
vent ports. I actually saved the Pod...mostly.
WATTO : (laughing) That you did. The boy is good, no doubts there.
QUI-GON : I have...acquired a Pod in a game of chance. "The fastest ever
built."
WATTO : I hope you didn't kill anyone I know for it. (laughs) So, you
supply the Pod and the entry fee; I supply the boy. We split the winnings
fifty-fifty, I think.
QUI-GON : Fifty-fifty!?! If it's going to be fifty-fifty, I suggest you
front the cash for the entry. If we win, you keep all the winnings, minus
the cost of the parts I need...If we lose, you keep my ship.

WATTO thinks about this. ANAKIN tries not to be nervous.

QUI-GON : (Cont'd) Either way, you win.
WATTO : (subtitled) Deal! Yo bana pee ho-tah, meedee ya. (Your friend is a
follish one, methinks.)

EXT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - TATOOINE DESERT - DAY

OBI-WAN stands outside the Naboo spacecraft, speaking into his comlink.
QUI-GON is on the back porch of the hovel.

OBI-WAN : What if this plan fails, Master? We could be stuck here for a
long time.
QUI-GON : (V.O) A ship without a power supply will not get us anywhere, and
there is something about this boy...

EXT MOS ESPA - SLAVE QUARTERS - PORCH - DAY

QUI-GON puts the comlink away as SHMI comes onto the porch

PADME, ANAKIN, JAR JAR, and ARTOO work on the engines of the Podracer in
the courtyard below.

QUI-GON : You should be proud of your son. He gives without any thought of
reward.
SHMI : He knows nothing of greed. He has...
QUI-GON : He has special powers.
SHMI : Yes...
QUI-GON : He can see things before they happen. That's why he appears to
have such quick reflexes. It is a Jedi trait.
SHMI : He deserves better than a slave's life.
QUI-GON : The Force is unusally strong with him, that much is clear. Who
was his father?
SHMI : There was no father, that I know of...I carried him, I gave him
birth...I can't explain what happened. Can you help him?
QUI-GON : I'm afraid not. Had he been born in the Republic, we would have
identified him early, and he would have become Jedi, no doubt...he has the
way. But it's too late for him now, he's too old.

EXT. MOS ESPA - SLAVE QUARTERS - BACK YARD - DAY

KITSTER (a young boy about Anakin's age), SEEK (a boy of ten), AMEE (a girl
of six), and WALD (a Greedo Type, six years old) join ANAKIN, JAR JAR,
ARTOO, and PADME securing some wiring.

ANAKIN : Padme and Jar Jar, this is my friend Kitster, and seek, Amee, and
Wald.

All whistle, hoot, and speak a greeting.

KITSTER : Wow, a real Astro Droid...how'd you get so lucky?
ANAKIN : This isn't the half of it. I'm entered in the Boonta Race
tomorrow!
KITSTER : What? With this??
WALD : (subtitled) Annie, Jesko na joka. 9You are such a joke, Annie.)
AMEE : You've been working on that thing for years. It's never going to
run.
SEEK : Come on, let's go play ball. Keep it up, Annie, and you're gonna be
bug squash.

SEEK, WALD, and AMEE take off, laughing. JAR JAR is fiddling with one of
the energy binder plates.

ANAKIN : Hey! Jar Jar! Stay away from those energy binders...
JAR JAR : Who, mesa?
ANAKIN : If your hand gets caught in that beam, it will go numb for hours.

JAR JAR peeks at the energy plate; it makes a little electronic pop, zaps
him in the mouth and jumps back. JAR JAR tries to say something, but his
mouth is numb and his words are garbled.

JAR JAR : Ouch-dats muy bigo Oucho. (Gibberish)
KITSTER : But you don't even know if this thing will run.
ANAKIN : It will.

QUI-GON approaches the GROUP and gives ANAKIN a small battery. JAR JAR gets
his hand caught in the afterburner and tries to tell Anakin, but can't get
words out that make sense.

QUI-GON : I think it's time we found out. Use this power charge. ANAKIN :
Yes, sir!!

ANAKIN jumps into the little capsule behind the two giant engines. He puts
the power pack back into the dashboard. EVERYONE backs away, except for JAR
JAR who calls for help. Finally PADME frees him and the engines ignite with
a ROAR. EVERYONE cheers.

EXT. MOS ESPA - SLAVE QUARTERS - PORCH - DAY

SHMI, watching from the porch, smiles sadly.

EXT. SLAVE QUARTERS - BALCONY - NIGHT

ANAKIN sits on the balcony rail of his hovel as QUI-GON tends to a cut. The
BOY leans back to look at the vast blanket of stars in the sky.

QUI-GON : Sit still, Annie. Let me clean this cut.
ANAKIN : There are so many! Do they all have a system of planets?
QUI-GON : Most of them.
ANAKIN : Has anyone been to them all?
QU-IG0N : (laughs) Not likely.
ANAKIN : I want to be the first one to see them all... Ouch!

QUI-GON wipes a patch of blood off ANAKIN'S arm.

QUI-GON : There, good as new...

SHMI yells from inside the hovel.

SHMI : (O.S.) Annie, bedtime!

QUI-GON scrapes ANAKIN's blood onto a comlink chip.

ANAKIN : What are you doing?
QUI-GON : Checking your blood for infections.
ANAKIN : I've never seen...
SHMI : (O.S.) Annie! I'm not goiung to tell you again!
QUI-GON : Go on, you have a big day tomorrow. (beat) Goodnight.

ANAKIN rolls his eyes and runs into the hovel. QUI-GON takes the blood
stained chip and inserts it into the comlink, then calls OBI-WAN.

QUI-GON : (Cont'd) Obi-Wan...
OBI-WAN : Yes, Master.
QUI-GON : Make an analysis of this blood sample I'm sending you.
OBI-WAN : Wait a minute...
QUI-GON : I need a midi-chlorian count.
OBI-WAN : All right. I've got it.
QUI-GON : What are your readings?
OBI-WAN : Something must be wrong with the transmission.
QUI-GON : Here's a signal check.
OBI-WAN : Strange. The transmission seems to be in good order, but the
reading's off the chart...over twenty thousand.
QUI-GON : (almost to himself) That's it then.
OBI-WAN : Even Master Yoda doesn't have a midi-chlorian count that high!
QUI-GON : No Jedi has.
OBI-WAN : What does it mean?
QUI-GON : I'm not sure.

The JEDI KNIGHT looks up and sees SHMI in the doorway watching him.
Embarrassed, she goes back into the kitchen while QUI-GON ponders the
situation.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT MESA - NIGHT

The sinister looking Sith spacecraft lands on top of a desert mesa at dus,
scattering a herd of banthas. DARTH MAUL walks to the edge of the mesa and
studies the landscape with a pair of electrobinoculars. He picks out the
lights of three different cities in the distance, then pushes buttons on
his electronic armband.

Six football-sized PROBE DROIDS float out of the ship and head off in three
different directions toward the cities.

DARTH MAUL stands on the mesa and watches them through his
electrobinoculars.

EXT. MOS ESPA - SLAVE QUARTERS - PORCH - SUNRISE

Padme exits the hovel.

EXT. MOS ESPA - SLAVE QUARTERS - BACK YARD - SUNRISE

As the twin suns rise, ARTOO is busy painting the racing Pod. ANAKIN is
asleep. PADME passes ARTOO.

PADME : I hope you're about finished.

ARTOO whistles a positive reply. PADME sees KITSTER riding toward them on
an EOPIE, a strange camel-lile creature. He is leading a second EOPIE
behind him. PADME goes over to ANAKIN. He looks very vulnerable as he
sleeps. She watches him, then touches him on the cheek. ANAKIN wakes up,
yawns, and looks at her, a little puzzled.

ANAKIN : You were in my dream...you were leading a huge army into battle.
PADME : I hope not; I hate fighting. Your mother wants you to come in and
clean up. We have to leave soon. ANAKIN stands up and stretches just as
KITSTER arrives.

ANAKIN : Hook 'em up, Kitster. (to Padme) I won't be long. Where's Qui-Gon?

PADME : He and Jar Jar left already. They're with Watto at the arena.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - MAIN HANGER - DAY

RACE CREWS mill about outside the Main Hanger.

INT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - MAIN HANGER - DAY

The hanger is a large building with a dozen or so Podracers being readied
for the race. ALIEN CREWS and PILOTS rush about, making last minute fixes
on their vehicles. WATTO, QUI-GON, and JAR JAR walk through the activity.

WATTO : ...I want to see your spaceship the moment the race is over.
QUI-GON : Patienc, my blue friend. You'll have your winnings before the
suns set, and we'll be far away from here.
WATTO : Not if your ship belongs to me, I think...I warn you, no funny
business.
QUI-GON : You don't think Anakin will win?

WATTO stops before an orange racer. Sitting to one side, having his
shoulders and neck massaged by TWIN YOBANAS, is SEBULBA.

WATTO : Don't get me wrongo. I have great faith in the boy. He's a credit
to your race, but Sebulba there is going to win, I think.
QUI-GON : Why?
WATTO : He always wins. (laughs) I'm betting heavily on Sebulba.
QUI-GON : I'll take that bet.
WATTO : (suddenly stops laughing) What??!! What do you mean?
QUI-GON : I'll wager my new racing pod against...say...the boy and his
mother.
WATTO : A Pod for slaves. I don't think so...well, poerhaps. Just one...the
mother, maybe...the boy isn't for sale.
QUI-GON : The boy is small, he can't be worth much.

WATTO shakes his head.

QUI-GON : (Cont'd) For the fastest Pod ever built?!

WATTO shakes his head again.

QUI-GON : (Cont'd) Both, or no bet.
WATTO : No Pod's worth two slaves...not by a long shot...one slave or
nothing.
QUI-GON : The boy, then...

WATTO pulls out a small cube from his pocket.

WATTO : We'll let fate decide. Blue it's the boy, red his mother...

WATTO tosses the cube down. QUI-GON lifts his hand slightly; it turns blue.
QUI-GON smiles. WATTO is angry.

WATTO : (Cont'd) You won the small toss, outlander, bou you won't win the
race, so...it makes little difference.

ANAKIN and PADME enter the hanger on one of the EOPIES, pulling an engine.
KITSTER, on the other EOPIE, is pulling another engine. With THREEPIO
walking alongside, ARTOO trundles behind, pulling the Pod with SHMI sitting
on it. WATTO passes ANAKIN as he leaves.

WATTO : (Cont'd) (subtitled) Bonapa keesa pateeso, o wanna meetee chobodd.
(Better stop your friends betting, or I'll end up owning him, too.)

WATTO walks off, laughing.

ANAKIN : What did he mean by that?

QUI-GON : I'll tell you later.

ARTOO beeps at THREEPIO.

THREEPIO : Oh my! Space travel sounds rather perilous.

ARTOO emits a series of beeps.

THREEPIO : I can assure you they will never get me onto one of those
dreadful starships!
KITSTER : (to Anakin) This is so wizard! I'm sure you'll do it this time,
Annie.
PADME : Do what?
KITSTER : Finish the race, of course!
PADME : You've never won a race?
ANAKIN : Well...not exactly...
PADME : Not even finished?!

ANAKN looks sheepish.

ANAKIN : ...but Kitster's right, I will this time.
QUI-GON : Of course you will.

EXT. MOS ESPA - STREET - DAY

One of Darth Maul's PROBE DROIDS slowly floats down the main street of
Tatooine. It looks in shops and studies PEOPLE as it searches for OBI-WAN,
QI-GON, or the QUEEN.

EXT. MOS ESPA - DESERT RACE ARENA - DAY

An EXTREME HIGH WIDE ANGLE reveals a vast arena in the Tatooine desert. A
large semi-circular amphitheatre that holds at least a hundred thousand
people dominates the landscape. Large viewing platforms loom over the
racetrack. INT. MOS ESPA - ARENA ANNOUNCER'S BOX - DAY (FX)

A two-headed ANNOUNCER describes the scene.

FODE/BEED : -
A: Toogi! Toogie! (Greetings) Toong mee cha kulkah du Boonta magi! tah oos
azalus ooval Poddraces. (We have perfect weather today for the Boonta
classic. The most hazardous of all Podraces.)
B : That's absolutly right. And a big turnout here, from all corners of the
Outer Rim territories. I see the contestants are making their way out onto
the starting grid.

EXT. MOS ESPA - DESERT RACE ARENA - DAY

On the left side of the tracks across from the grandstands, a line of
Podracers emerges from the large hanger, surrounded by several CREW
MEMBERS. Pods are pulled by a wide variety of CREATURES and are led by
aliens carrying flags. The PILOTS stand facing the royal box.

FODE/BEED : -
(O.S) A : La Yma beestoo (Yes, there they are!)
B : I see Ben Quadinaros from the Tund system.
A : ...eh Gasgano doowa newpa Ord Petrovia! (And Gasgano in thenew Ord
Pedrovia.)
B : Two time winner, Boles Roor...
A : Poo tula moosta, woe grane champio Sebulba du Pixelito! Splastyleeya
bookie ookie!! (On the front line the reigning champion, Sebulba from
Pixelito. By far the favorite today.)
B : And a late entry, Anakin Skywalker, a local boy.
A : Wampa peedunkee unko ( I hope he has better luck this time.)
B : I see the flaggers are moving onto the track.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - GRANDSTAND - DAY

Colorful canopies shade some of the SPECTATORS. VENDORS sell barbecued
creature parts and colorful drinks.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - ROYAL BOX - DAY (FX)

All the PILOTS bow from the waist as JABBA THE HUTT enters the box and
waves to the crowd.

FODE/BEED : -
A : O grandio lust, Jabba Du Hutt, amu intoe tah parena. (His honor, our
glorious host, Jabba the Hutt has entered the arena.)

The crowd ROARS. SEVERAL OTHER SLUG-LIKE HUTTS follow, along with humans
and aliens. Several SLAVE GIRLS on a chain are led alongside JABBA.

JABBA : (subtitled) Chowbaso! Tam ka chee Boonta rulee ya, kee madda
hodrudda du wundee. (Welcome!) Sebulba tuta Pixelito...

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - STARTING GRID - DAY

SEBULBA, who is right next to ANAKIN, stands and waves to his fans. A small
pep band plays as his fans wave and cheer.

KITSTER attaches the giant engins to Anakin's Pod with a long cable. SHMI
gives ANAKIN a big hug and kiss. She looks him right in the eye.

SHMI : Be safe.
ANAKIN : I will, Mom. I promise.

She leaves as ANAKIN checks the cable hitches.

JABBA : ...Mawhonic tuta Hok, Teemto Pagalies tuta Moonus Mandel, Anakin
SKywalker tuta Tatoonine....

The CROWD YELLS. ANAKIN waves to the crowd, as JABBA continues with his
introductions. SEBULBA moves over to one of Anakin's engines. KITSTER and
JAR JAR unhitch the EOPIES, and KITSTER leads them away. ARTOO beeps that
everything is OK. JAR JAR pats ANAKIN on the back.

JAR JAR : Dis berry loony, Annie. May da guds be kind, mesa palo.

PADME comes up and gives ANAKIN a little kiss on the cheeek. SEBULBA bangs
on a part protruding from Anakin's engine. He looks around to see if anyone
has noticed.

PADME : You carry all our hopes.
ANAKIN : I won't let you down.

PADME moves away as SEBULBA edges his way next to ANAKIN and gives him a
sinister grin.

SEBULBA : Bazda wahota, shag. Dobiella Nok. Yoka to Bantha poodoo. 9You
won't walk away from this one, slave scum! You're Bantha poodoo.)
ANAKIN : (subtitled) Cha skrundee da pat, sleemo. (Don't count on it,
slime-ball.)

ANAKIN looks the evil SEBULBA in the eye with a cold stare. QUI-GON
approaches, and SEBULBA backs off toward his racer.

JABBA : (sutitled)...Ka bazza kundee hodrudda! (...Let the challenge
begin!)

The CROWD lets out a LOUD CHEER. QUI-GON helps ANAKIN into his Pod. The boy
straps himself into the tiny racer.

QUI-GON : Are you all set, Annie? (Anakin nods) Remember, concentrate on
the moment. Feel. Don't think. Trust your instincts. (he smiles) May the
Force be with you.

QUI-GON steps away as ANAKIN puts on his goggles. The PILOTS flip switches,
and powerful energy binders shoot between the engines. ANAKIN flips a
switch, and his engine starts. The incredible ROAR of high-powered engines
igniting echoes throughout the arena. One driver, ODY MANDRELL, yells at a
droid (DUM-4) to get away from the front of his engine. The crowd is tense.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - STARTING GRID - DAY

The giant power-house engines torque as the PILOTS gun them. The PILOTS
flip switches, and poerful energy binders shoot between the engines. Aliens
carrying large flags move off the track. JAR JAR covers his eyes.

JAR JAR : Mesa no watch. Dissen ganna be messy!
FODE/BEED : -
A : Ya pawa culka doe rundee! (The power couplings are being activated)
B : Hey, it looks like they're clearing the grid.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - VIEWING PLATFORM - DAY

SHMI looks nervously to QUI-GON as he enters a veiwing platform. PADME and
JAR JAR are already on board. The platform rises like an elevator.

SHMI : Is he nervous?
QUI-GON : He's fine.
PADME : You Jedi are far too reckless. The Queen...
QUI-GON : The Queen trusts my judgment, young handmaiden. You should too.
PADME : You assume too much.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA ANNOUNCER'S BOX - DAY (FX)

FODE/BEED : -
B : Start your engines.

The earth-pounding ROAR of the engines revving is deafening.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - ROYAL BOX - DAY (FX)

Jabba bites off the head of a frog and spits it at a gong, signaling the
start of the race.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - STARTING GRID - DAY

On a bridge over the track, a great green light at the center flashes. The
Podracers shoot forward with a high-pitches scream. ANAKIN'S engine floods
and coughs - then dies. All the other Podracers except one swerve around
him and dissapear down the track. The slave boy struggles to get his racer
started. The two-headed announcer reports.

FODE/BEED : - (O.S.)
A : An dare ovv! (And they're off!)
B : Oh...wait. Little Skywalker has stalled.

PADME and JAR JAR are very dissapointed with ANAKIN. QUI-GON puts his arm
around a very worried SHMI to comfort her. Finally, Anakin's engines
ignite. He zooms away after the receeding pack of competitors, leaving one
quadra-Pod racer still trying to get started. The two-headed ANNOUNCER
describes the race as it progresses.

FODE/BEED : - (O.S.)
B : And there goes Skywalker... He'll be hard pressed to catch up with the
leaders today.

EXT. MOS ESPA - RACETRACK - DAY (FX)

The Podracers fly across the desert. SEBULBA is running neck and neck with
MAWHONIC. They round the first turn in the track, side by side. SEBULBA
drives his Pod into his rival, forcing him into the wall of a large rock
formation. MAWHONIC crashes in a spectacular display of fire and smoke.
ANAKIN is much faster than the back-end stragglers and passes them easily.
One of the drivers, GASGANO, won't let ANAKIN by. ANAKIN tries to pass him
on one side and is cut off. He then tries to pass him on the other side
ansd is cut off. As they come up on a cliff drop-off, ANAKIN backs off,
then guns it as GASGANO goes over the cliff. ANAJIN accelerates so fast
that he sails right over the top of GASGANO and speeds away.
Four TUSKEN RAIDERS perched above the race course fire their rifles at the
Pods racing in the canyon below them. One shot ricochets off the back of
Anakin's Pod.

FODE/BEED : -
B : Looks like a few Tusken Riaders have campe out on the canyon dune turn.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - VIEWING PLATFORM - DAY

JABBA THE HUTT and the crowd watch the progress of the race on small,
hand-held view screens. JAR JAR is looking over the shoulder of a strange
alien named FANTA.

JAR JAR : Where's Skywalker?

FANTA moves the view screen out of Jar Jar's view. PADME, SHMI, and QUI-GON
watch another screen and look worried.
ARTOO, down in the pits with KITSTER, lets out a worried sigh. The driver
of the quadra-Pod looks worried.

EXT. MOS ESPA - RACETRACK - DAY (FX)

ANAKIN is powering around corners and over hills and cliffs, passing other
racers right and left. SEBULBA is in the lead. He is being challenged by
another racer, XELBREE.
SEBULBA slows a little, and as XELBREE pulls alongside, he opens a side
vent on the racer's engine and the exhaust starts to cut through the
alien's engine.
The blast cuts along the engine until finally it EXPLODES. SEBULBA deftly
veers away.
ANAKIN works his way through a dense mass of racers as they zoom over a
dune sea, kicking up dust. His Pod shakes violently as he goes over a jump.
One of the Podracers, ODY, catches one of his engines in the sand, and the
whole thing EXPLODES.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - VIEWING PLATFORM - DAY

QUI-GON sits quietly, meditating. PADME and SHMI search the landscape for
any sign of the racers. JAR JAR is still annoying FANTA for information.
The crowd SCREAMS. WATTO is laughing with his friends, confident in
Anakin's defeat.
The quadra-Pod engines start just as the racers come around the corner. The
DRIVER, BEN QUADINAROS, puts it in gear, and the four engines go off in all
directions, EXPLODING in a spectacular display. The Pod drops to the ground
as SEBULBA enters the arena, closely followed by all the OTHER RACERS.
KITSTER strains to see as ARTOO beeps excitedly. The announcer continues.

FODE/BEED : - (O.S)
B ; There goes Quadinaros' power couplings.
A : Sebulba! Ka pa me cheespa wata! (Here comes Sebulba in record time.)

QUI-GON, PADME, SHMI, and JAR JAR yell for joy as ANAKIN passes. JAR JAR is
very nervous and pounds on the back of his alien neighbor, FANTA. JAR JAR :
What gooie-on?
FANTA : Bug off.

Lap two. SEBULBA and the pack race past the main arena. The crowd stands
and YELLS as the Podracers scream off into the distance. QUI-GON and PADME
look worried.

JAR JAR : He musta crash-ud.
PADME : Here he comes!

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - PIT AREA - DAY (FX)

ARTOO lets out an excited whistle, as KITSTER yells.

THREEPIO : He has to complete two more circuits? Oh dear!

EXT. MOS ESPA - RACETRACK - DAY (FX)

Sure enough, coming around the bend is ANAKIN, quickly gaining on the pack.
The two-headed announcer describes the action. The crowd goes wild.

FODE/BEED : - (O.S.)
B : It looks like Skywalker is moving up through the field. He's in...
A : Steeth pa nagoola! (Sixth place, not bad.)

ANAKIN continues to gain on the pack. Tension for SHMI and PADME is
unbearable.
ODY stops in the pits. Droids work on his engines. DUM-4 stands in front of
the engine and is sucked in, causing the engine to die. DUM-4 is spit out
the back of the engine, very bent up. The engine lets out one final wheeze,
then EXPLODES in a puff of smoke.

FODE/BEED : - (O.S.)
A : Ody Mandrell! Coona wa wunda dunko! (Ody Mandrell into the pits for
some attention.)
ODY : Droids!

TERTER is getting close to SEBULBA, who purposely breaks a small part off
his Pod, sending it into Terter's engine, causing him to veer into ANAKIN,
and unhooks one of the main straps on Anakin's engines that links the Pod
to his engines.
ANAKIN struggles to keep control of the little Pod. It whips about wildly.
As the Pod swings near the broken engine strap, ANAKIN grabs for it.
Finally, he catches the strap and manages to unhook it to the Pod.
SEBULBA cuts the engine of OBITOKI with his side exhaust, and the racer
crashes with a cloud of dust. A THIRD RACER, HABBA, flie into the cloud of
dust and crashes into OBITOKI. ANAKIN rounds a corner and heads into the
cloud of smoke. He hits a part of one of the engines but regains control.

FODE/BEED : - (O.S.)
B :At the start of the third and final lap, Sebulba is in the lead, closely
followed by Skywalker...

ANAKIN finally catches up with SEBULBA, and runs neck and neck over the
rough terrain. JAR JAR, QUI-GON, SHMI, and PADME all SCREAM s ANAKIN comes
through the arena. The lights in the tower indicate that this is the third
and last lap. WATTO begins to worry.
SEBULBA uses his side exhaust port to try to cut through Anakin's engines.
ANAKIN manages to avoid having his engine disabled but is forced off
course.

FODE/BEED : - (O.S.)
B : Skywalker is forced onto the service ramp!
A : Oh noah!

On a tight corner, ANAKIN dives to the inside and takes the lead.

FODE BEED : - (O.S.)
B : Amazing... a controlled thrust and he's back on course! What a move!

SEBULBA is furious. He stay's right on Anakin's tail, crowding him and
pushing him through the turns.
SEBULBA pushes ANAKIN harder, and the young boy has a difficult time
keeping control. One of the parts on Anakin's engines begins to shake
loose. ANAKIN sees it and switches over to an auxiliary system. While he is
trying to accomplish this maneuver, SEBULBA races past him.
ANAKIN tries to get around SEBULBA, to no avail. Every move ANAKIN makes,
SEBULBA is able to block.
Finally, ANAKIN fakes a move into the inside as he usually does, then tries
to go around SEBULBA on the outside. They race sid by side down the final
stretch of the track.

FODE/BEED : - (O.S.)
B : He's catching Sebulba.
A : Inkabunga. (Incredible!)

SEBULBA veers toward ANAKIN and bangs into his Pod. He crashes into ANAKIN
over and over. The young boy struggles to maintain control as the steering
rods on the two Pods become hooked together. SEBULBA laughs at ANAKIN.

FODE/BEED : - (O.S.)
B : That little human being is out of his mind.
A : Punda tah punda! (They're neck and neck!)
B : They're side by side!
A : Bongo du bongu! (Shoulder to shoulder!)

As they head for the final stretch, ANAKIN fights to unlock the steering
rods by trying to pull away from SEBULBA. The strain on the steering rod is
tremendous. Suddenly, ANAKIN's steering arm breaks, and his Pos starts
spinning.
The release of tension sends SEBULBA into an ancient statue. One engine
EXPLODES, then the other. SEBULBA skids through the fire-balls, blackened,
but unhurt. He slides to a smoking stop, gets out of his racer, and throws
what's left of a shifter arm on the ground. Suddenly he realizes his pants
are on fire, and he struggles to put them out. ANAKIN flies through the
EXPLOSION as the crowd stands, CHERRING. PADME and JAR JAR jump up and down
with excitment, PADME screaming for joy. ARTOO and KITSTER whistle
hysterically. QUI-GON and SHMI smile. ANAKIN races over the finish line,
the winner.

INT. MOS ESPA - ARENA ANNOUNCERS BOX - DAY (FX)

The two-headed announcer excitedly calls the finish.

FODE/BEED : -
B : It's Skywalker! The crowd are going nuts! Oh Ah Oh Ah (rock head in
tandem with partner)

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - DAY

As ANAKIN stops the Podracer, KISTER turns up, and they embrace. Hundreds
of SPECTATORS join them and put ANAKIN on their shoulders, marching off,
CHEERING AND CHANTING. Darth Maul's PROBE DROIDS move through the crowd.

INT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - PRIVATE BOX - DAY

Several ALIENS leave Watto's box, laughing and counting their money. WATTO
sees QUI-GON standing in the doorway.

WATTO : You! You swindled me! You knew the boy was going to win! Somehow
you knew it! I lost everything.

WATTO flies up to QUI-GON and puts his face right up against QUI-GON's.
QUI-GON simply smiles.

QUI-GON : Whenever you gamble, my freind, eventually you'll lose. Bring the
parts to the main hanger. I'll come by your shop later so you can release
the boy.
WATTO : You can't have him! It wasn't a fair bet!
QUI-GON : Would you like to discuss it with the Hutts...I'm sure they can
settle this.
WATTO : No, no! I want no more of your tricks! Take him!

The SITH PROBE DROID watches with great interest.

EXT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - MAIN HANGER - DAY

The Main Hanger is almost deserted as RACERS depart.

INT. MOS ESPA - ARENA - MAIN HANGER - DAY

JAR JAR gives ANAKIN a great hug, then PADME gives him a hug, then SHMI.

ANAKIN : Ah, gee...enough of this...
SHMI : It's so wonderful, Annie. You have brought hope to those who have
none. I'm so very proud of you...
PADME : We owe you everything.
ANAKIN : Just feeling this good was worth it.

In the background, QUI-GON has harnessed the EOPIES to containers full of
parts.

QUI-GON : Padme. Jar Jar, let's go, we've got to get these parts back to
the ship.

The GROUP walks over to QUI-GON and the EOPIES.
PADME climbs on behind QUI-GON. JAR JAR swings up onto the second EOPIE,
only to slwly slide off the other side. ARTOO whistles. ANAKIN and SHMI
wave as they ride off.

QUI-GON : (Cont'd) I'll return the eopies by midday.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - NABOO SPACECRAFT - DAY

ARTOO cruises ahead of QUI-GON and PADME, who are riding one of the EOPIES;
JAR JAR ridses the other. They stop in front of the sleek Naboo spacecraft.
OBI-WAN comes out of the ship and joins them.

QUI-GON : Start getting this hyperdrive generator installed. I'm going
back...some unfinished business. I won't be long.
OBI-WAN : Why do I sense we've picked up another pathetic life form...?
QUI-GON : It's the boy who's responsible for getting those parts.

On a hill far overlooking the Naboo spacecraft, the SITH PROBE DROID turns
and speeds away.

EXT. TATOOINE - STREET - SLAVE QUARTERS - DAY

ANAKIN and A GREEDO are rolling around on the floor, fighting. About A
DOZEN OR SO KIDS are standing around them, yelling. Suddenly, a long shadow
is cast over the TWO BOYS; they stop fighting and look up. QUI-GOMN is
towering above them. KITSTER is with them.

QUI-GON : What's this?
ANAKIN : He said I cheated.
QUI-GON : Did you?
ANAKIN : No!
QUI-GON : Do you still think he cheated?
GREEDO : Yes.
QUI-GON : Well, Annie. You know the truth... You will have to tolerate his
opinion, fighting won't change it.

QUI-GON moves off down the street. Anakin follows. The GREEDO wanders over
to WALD who has been watching the goings-on.

WALD : Keep this up, Greedo, and you're gonna come to a bad end.

Farther down the street QUI-GON and ANAKIN head toward Anakin's hovel.
QUI-GON takes a handful of credits from beneath his poncho and hands them
to the boy.

QUI-GON : These are yours. We sold the Pod.
ANAKIN : (suddenly beaming) Yes!

INT. ANAKIN'S HOVEL - MAIN ROOM - DAY

SHMI is cleaning up as ANAKIN bursts through the door, followed by QUI-GON.

ANAKIN : Mom, he sold the Pod. Look at all the money we have!

ANAKIN pulls a bag of coins out of his pocket.

SHMI : Oh, my goodness, That's wonderful.
QUI-GON : And Anakin has been freed.
ANAKIN : What?!?
QUI-GON : You're no longer a slave.

ANAKIN jumps for joy! SHMI is stunned.

ANAKIN : Did you hear that, Mom? (to Qui-Gon) Was that part of the prize,
or what?
QUI-GON : Let's just say Watto has learned an important lesson about
gambling.
SHMI : Now you can make your dreams come true, Annie. You're free! (turns
to Qui-Gon) Will you take him with you? Is he to become a Jedi?
QUI-GON : Our meeting was not a coincidence. Nothing happens by accident.
You are strong with the Force, but you may not be accepted by the Coucil.
ANAKIN : A Jedi! Mighty blasters, you mean I get to go with you in your
starship and everything?!

QUI-GON kneels down to the boy.

QUI-GON : Anakin, training to be a Jedi will not be a easy challenge. And
if you succeed, it will be a hard life.
ANAKIN : But it's what I want. What I've always dreamed about. Can I go,
Mom?!
QUI-GON : This path has been placed for you, Annie; the choice to take it
is yours alone.

ANAKIN thinks, looks to his mother, then to QUI-GON.

ANAKIN : I want to go.
QUI-GON : Then, pack your things. We haven't much time.
ANAKIN : Yipee!!

ANAKIN hugs his mom and starts for the other room, then stops. SHMI and
QUI-GON give each other a knowing look. ANAKIN has realized something.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) What about Mom? Is she free too? You're coming, aren't
you, Mom
QUI-GON : I tried to free your mother, Annie, but Watto wouldn't have it.
ANAKIN : But the money from selling...
QUI-GON : It's not nearly enough.

SHMI comes over to her son and sits next to him. Taking both of his hands
in hers, she draws him close.

SHMI : Son, my place is here. My future is here. It is time for you to let
go...to let go of me. I cannot go with you.
ANAKIN : I want to stay with you. I don't want things to change.
SHMI : You can't stop change any more than you can stop the suns from
setting. Listen to your feelings; Annie, you know what's right.

ANAKIN takes a deep breath, drops his head. QUI-GON and SHMI exchange a
look of concern. When ANAKIN raises up, there are tears in his eyes.

ANAKIN : I'm going to miss you so much, Mom...
SHMI : I love you, Annie...now hurry.

ANAKIN and SHMI hug. ANAKIN runs into the other room.

SHMI : (Cont'd) Thank you.
QUI-GON : I will watch after him. You have my word. Will you be all right?
SHMI : He was in my life for such a short time.

INT. ANAKIN'S HOVEL - SECOND ROOM - DAY

ANAKIN has thrown the last of his things in a small backpack. As he leaves,
he stops and pushes the button that wakes his droid up. THREEPIO stares at
him blankly.

ANAKIN : Well, Threepio, I'm free...and I'm going away...in a starship...
THREEPIO : Master, Annie, you are my maker, and I wish you well. Although
I'd like it better if I were a little less naked.
ANAKIN : I'm sorry I wasn't able to finish you, Threepio...give you
coverings and all... I'm going to miss working on you. You've been a great
pal. I'll make sure Mom doesn't sell you or anything. Bye.

THREEPIO stares at ANAKIN as he rushes out of the room.

THREEPIO : Sell me?!?

EXT. MOS ESPA - STREET - SLAVE QUARTERS - DAY

KITSTER runs up to ANAKIN as he and QUI-GON exit Anakin's hovel. SHMI
stands in the doorway. ANAKIN pulls a handful of coins out of his pocket
and gives them to KITSTER.

KITSTER : There are so many of us who want you to stay, Annie... You're a
hero.
ANAKIN : I... (looks to SHMI) I... have to go.

QUI-GON has moved a short way down the street.

KITSTER : Well.
ANAKIN : Well.
KITSTER : Thank's for every moment you've been here. You're my best friend.
ANAKIN : I won't forget.

ANAKIN hugs KITSTER and runs toward QUI-GON, then stops to look back at his
mother standing in the doorway. He turns back to QUI-GON, then turns and
runs back to his mother.

ANAKIN : (starting to cry) I can't do it, Mom. I just can't.

SHMI hugs ANAKIN. QUI-GON watches from the distance. She kneels down and
looks him in the face.

SHMI : Annie, remember when you climbed the great dune in order to chase
the Banthas away so they wouldn't be shot... Remember how you collapses
several times, exhausted thinking you couldn't do it?

ANAKIN shakes his head.

SHMI : (Cont'd) This is one of those times when you have to do something
you don't think you can do. I know how strong you are, Annie. I know you
can do this...
ANAKIN : Will I ever see you again?
SHMI : What does your heart tell you?
ANAKIN : I hope so...yes...I guess.
SHMI : Then we will see each other again.
ANAKIN : I.. will become a Jedi and I will come back and free you, Mom...I
promise.
SHMI : No matter where you are, my love will be with you. Now be brave, and
don't look back... don't look back.
ANAKIN : I love you so much.

SHMI hugs ANAKIN, then turns him around so he is facing QUI-GON, and off he
marches, like the brave little trooper that he is. He marches right past
QUI-GON, starring right ahead, tears in his eyes, determined not to look
back.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT MESA - DAY

The PROBE DROID beeps and whistles to DARTH MAUL. The SITH LORD gets on a
speeder bike and follows the PROBE DROID into Mos Espa.

EXT MOS ESPA - STREET - FRUIT STAND - DAY

ANAKIN and QUI-GON exit WATTO'S and stop before JIRA'S fruit stand. ANAKIN
hands JIRA some coins.

ANAKIN : I've been freed, and I'm going away. Buy yourself a cooling unit
with this... Otherwise I'll worry about you.

JIRA is astonished. She stares, not knowing what to say.

JIRA : Can I give you a hug
ANAKIN : Sure.

She gives him a hug.

JIRA : I'll miss you, Annie.. there isn't a kinder boy in the galaxy. You
be careful...

ANAKIN runs to join QUI-GON, who has already started down the street. As
they walk along together, QUI-GON notices something out of the corner of
his eye.
Suddenly, without breaking his stride, he ignites his laser sword, swing
around, and lunges forward and cuts a lurking PROBE DROID in half. QUI-GON
inspects the sparking and fizzing DROID.

ANAKIN : What is it?
QUI-GON : Probe droid. Very unusual... not like anything I've seen before.
Come on.

QUI-GON and ANAKIN start running.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - NABOO SPACECRAFT - DAY

QUI-GON and ANAKIN run toward the Naboo spacecraft. ANAKIN is having a hard
time keeping up.

ANAKIN : Master Qui-Gon,sir, wait!

QUI-GON turns to answer and sees a DARK-CLOAKED FIGURE bearing down on a
speeder bike.

QUI-GON : Anakin, drop!

ANAKIN drops to the ground just as DARTH MAUL sweeps over him. DARTH MAUL
jumps off his speeder bike, and before he has hit the ground, the Sith Lord
has swund a death blow with his laser sword that is barely blocked by
QUI-GON.
ANAKIN picks himself up. The two galactic warriors, Sith and Jedi, are
bashing each other with incredible blows. They move in a continual cloudof
dust, smashing everything around them. This is a fierce fight. ANAKIN gets
up, bewildered by the confrontation.

QUI-GON : (Cont'd) Annie, get to the ship! Take off! Go! Go!

QUI-GON struggles to fend off the relentless onslaught as ANAKIN races to
the ship.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - HALLWAY

ANAKIN runs into the main hallway of the spaceship, where PADME and CAPTAIN
PANAKA are working.

ANAKIN : Qui-Gon's in trouble. He says to take off...now!!
CAPT. PANAKA : Who are you?
PADME : He's a friend.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - COCKPIT

CAPTAIN PANAKA, ANAKIN, and PADME rush into the cockpit where OBI-WAN and
RIC OLIE are checking the hyperdrive.

CAPT. PANAKA : Qui-Gon is in trouble, he says to take off!
PILOT : I don't see anything.
OBI-WAN : Over there! Fly low!

In the distance is a small cloud of dust.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - NABOO SPACECRAFT - DAY

QUI-GON and DARTH MAUL continue theirsword battle. Leaping over one another
in an incredible display of acrobatics, the two warrios hear the ship fly
over them a few feet off the ground. QUI-GON almost dissapears for a
moment.
Before DARTH MAUL knows what's happening, QUI-GON is on the spacecrat's
ramp.

EXT. TATOOINE - NABOO SPACECRAFT RAMP - DAY

The SITH LORD immediately jumps onto the ramp after QUI-GON, but barely
makes it. His heels hang over the edge of a forty-foot drop. QUI-GON swings
his laser sword with all his might and knocks DARTH AMUL off the ramp and
onto the desert floor. The ramp closes, and the Naboo craft rockets away,
leaving the Sith Lord standing alone.

EXT. SPACE - NABOO SPACECRAFT (FX)

The sleek spacecraft rockets away from the planet Tatooine.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - HALLWAY

ANAKIN and OBI-WAN rush into the hallway to find QUI-GON collapsed on the
floor opposite the entry. ARTOO is looking over him. The JEDI is breathing
hard, wet with sweat and covered in dirt.

ANAKIN : Are you all right?
QUI-GON : I think so... that was a surpirse I wont soon forget.
OBI-WAN : What was it?
QUI-GON : I don't know... but he was well trained in the Jedi arts. My
guess is he was after the Queen...
ANAKIN : Do you think he'll follow us?
QUI-GON : We'll be safe enough once we're in hyperspace, but I have no
doubt he knows our destination.
ANAKIN : What are we going to do about it?

OBI-WAN gives ANAKIN a "who are you?" look. ANAKIN returns an innocent
stare.

QUI-GON : We will be patient. Anakin Skywalker, meet Obi-Wan Kenobi.
ANAKIN : Pleased to meet you. Wow! You're a Jedi too?

OBI-WAN gives the boy a skeptical look.

INT. COCKPIT - SPACE

RIC OLIE pulls back on the hyperdrive. OBI-WAN, QUI-GON, and ANAKIN watch.

QUI-GON : Let's hope this hyperdrive works and Watto didn't get the last
laugh.

The stars streak outside the cockpit window.

EXT. SPACE - NABOO SPACECRAFT (FX)

The ship streaks into hyperspace.

EXT. THEED - STREET - NIGHT (FX)

SEVERAL FEDERATION DROIDS patrol a deserted city street. The Palace can be
seen in the distance.

INT. NABOO PALACE - THRONE ROOM - THEED - NIGHT

NUTE sits in a strange, mechanical walking chair, which approaches SIO
BIBBLE and SEVERAL OTHER NABOO OFFICIALS. RUNE follows a few paces behind.
DROID GUARDS surround SIO BIBBLE and THE OTHERS as FOUR COUNCIL MEMBERS
watch.

NUTE : When are you going to give up this pointless strike? Your Queen is
lost, your people are starving, and you, Governor, are going to die, much
sooner than your people, I'm afraid. Take him away!
BIBBLE : This invasion will gain you nothing. We're a democracy. The people
have decided... They will not live under your tyranny.

BIBBLE is taken away as OOM-9 approaches NUTE.

OOM-9 : My troops are in position to begin searching the swamps for these
rumored underwater villages... they will not stay hidden for long.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - MAIN AREA

The ship is asleep. The lights are dim as PADME walks into the main room.
She goes to a monitor and watches the BIBBLE plea recording. JAR JAR is
stretched out on the floor, snoring. ARTOO is to one side, cooing as he
rests.
PADME appears tired. She senses someone watching her and turns around with
a start. She sees ANAKIN sitting in the corner, shivering and looking
verydejected. She goes over to him. He looks up at her with tears in his
eyes. He is holding his arms to keep himself warm.

PADME : Are you all right?
ANAKIN : It's very cold.

PADME gives him her over-jacket.

PADME : You're from a warm planet, Annie. Too warm for my taste. Space is
cold.
ANAKIN : You seem sad.
PADME : The Queen is...worried. Her people are suffering...dying. She must
convince the Senate to intervene, or...I'm not sure what will happen.
ANAKIN : I'm...I'm not sure what's going to happen to me. I dunno if I'll
ever see you again.. (he pulls something from his pocket) I made this for
you. Sou you'd remember me. I carved it out of a japor snippet... It will
bring you good fortune.

ANAKIN hands a wooden pendant to PADME. She inspects it, then puts it
around her neck.

PADME : It's beautiful, but I don't need this to remember you. Many things
will change when we reach the capital, Annie. My caring for you will always
remain.
ANAKIN : I care for you too. Only I...miss...

ANAKIN is disturbed about something. Tears are in his eyes.

PADME : ...You miss your mother.

ANAKIN looks at her, unable to speak. She hugs him.

EXT. SPACE - PLANET CORUSCANT (FX)

MOVE with the ship as it heads toward Coruscant.

INT. CORUSCANT - CITYSCAPE - NABOO SPACECRAFT - DAY (FX)

The spacecraft dlies over the endlesscityscape of Coruscant, the capital of
the galaxy.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - COCKPIT

ANAKIN looks out the cockpit window in awe.

RIC OLIE : Coruscant...the capital of the Republic...the entire planet is
one big city.
ANAKIN : Wow! It's so huge!

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - DAY (FX)

The ship flies through the cityscape of Coruscant.

EXT. CORUSCANT - SENATE LANDING PLATFORM - DAY

Supreme Chancellor VALORUM, SEVERAL GUARDS, and SENATOR PALPATINE stand on
a landing platform.
The sleek Naboo spacecraft lands on the platform high above the street
level of the galactic capital. The ramp lowers. OBI-WAN, QUI-GON, JAR JAR
and ANAKIN descend the ramp first and bow before PALPATINE and VALORUM.
CAPTAIN PANAKA, TWO GUARDS, QUEEN AMIDALA, then PADME, RABE, EIRTAE,
and
MORE GUARDS descend the ramp. QUEEN AMIDALA stops before the group.
ANAKIN and JAR JAR stand to one side, looking at the huge city. PADME
smiles at ANAKIN. PALPATINE bows before the Queen.

PALPATINE : It is a great gift to see you alive, Your Majesty. May I
present Supreme Chancellor Valorum.
VALORUM : Welcome, Your Highness. It is an honor to finally meet you in
person. I must relay to you how distressed everyone is over the currant
situation. I've called for a special session of the Senate to hear your
position.
AMIDALA : I am grateful for your concern, Chancellor.

PALPATINE starts to lead QUEEN AMIDALA and her RETINUE off the platform
toward a waiting air taxi.

PALPATINE : There is a question of precedure, but I feel confident we can
overcome it...

JAR JAR and ANAKIN start to follow, then stop, noticing that OBI-WAN and
QUI-GON are staying with the SUPREME CHANCELLOR. QUEEN AMIDALA waves to the
duo to follow her. ANAKIN looks back to QUI-GON, and he nods to go ahead.
ANAKIN and JAR JAR join the QUEEN, PALPATINE, PADME, RABE and EIRTAE in the
taxi. PALPATINE gives the Gungan and the boy in the back of the taxi a
skeptical look. JAR JAR leans over to ANAKIN.

JAR JAR : Da Queens- a bein grossly nice, mesa tinks. (he looks around)
Pitty hot!

VALORUM and the JEDI watch the taxi move off into the city.

QUI-GON : I must speak with the Jei Council immediately, Your Honor. The
situation has become more complicated.

INT. PALPATINE'S QUARTERS - ANTEROOM - DAY

QUEEN AMIDALA is sitting listening to PALPATINE. EIRTAE and RABE stand
behind the QUEEN; PADME is nowhere to be sen. ANAKIN and JAR JAR are
waiting in an adjoining room. They can see the Queen but cannot hear what
is being said.

JAR JAR : Dissen all pitty odd to my.
ANAKIN : Don't look at me. I don't know what's going on.

CAPTAIN PANAKA enters, then goes into the room with QUEEN AMIDALA.

INT. PALPATINE'S QUARTERS - LIVING AREA - DAY

PALPATINE is pacing as CAPTAIN PANAKA enters. EIRTAE and RABE stand to one
side.

PALPATINE : ...the Republic is not what it once was. The Senate is full of
greedy, squabbling delegates who are only looking out for themselves and
their home sytems. There is no interest in the common good...no civility,
only politics...its disgusting. I must be frank, Your Majesty, there is
little chance the Senate will act on the invasion.
AMIDALA : Chancellor Valorum seems to think there is hope.
PALPATINE : If I may say so, Your Majesty, the Chancellor has little real
power...he is mired down by baseless accusations of corruption. A
manufactured scandal surrounds him. The bureaucrats are in charge now.
AMIDALA : What options do we have?
PALPATINE : Our best choice would be to push for the election of a stronger
Supreme Chancellor. One who will take control of the bureaucrats, enforces
the laws, and give us justice. You could call for a vote of no confidence
in Chancellor Valorum.
AMIDALA : He has been our strongest supporter. Is there any other way?
PALPATINE : Our only other choice would to be to submit a plea to the
courts...
AMIDALA : There's no time for that. The courts take even longer to decide
things than the Senate. Our people are dying, Senator...more and more each
day. We must do something quickly to stop the Federation.
PALPATINE : To be realistic, Your Highness, I'd say we're going to have to
accept Federation control for the time being.
AMIDALA : There is something I cannot do.

EXT. TEMPLE OF THE JEDI - DAY (FX)

A unique building with it tall spires stands out against the Coruscant
skyline. A small transport passes by the vast temple.

INT. TEMPLE OF THE JEDI - COUNCIL CHAMBERS - DAY

QUI-GON stands in a tall stately room. Twelve JEDI sit in a semi-circle.
OBI-WAN stands behind QUI-GON in the center of the room.
The Senior Jedi is MACE WINDU. To his left is an alien Jedi named
KI-ADI-MUNDI, and to his right, the Jedi Master, YODA.

QUI-GON : ...my only conclusion can be that it was a Sith Lord.
MACE WINDU : A Sith Lord?!?
KI-ADI : Impossible! The Sith have been extinct for a millenium.
YODA : The very Republic is threatened, if involved the Sith are.
MACE WINDU : I do not believe they could have returned without us knowing.
YODA : Hard to see, the dark side is. Discover who this assassin is, we
must.
KI-ADI : I sense he will reveal himself again.
MACE WINDU : This attack was with purpose, that is clear, and I agree the
Queen is the target.
YODA : With this Naboo queen you must stay, Qui-Gon. Protect her.
MACE WINDU : We will use all our resources here to unravel this mystery and
discover the identity of your attacker... May the Force be with you.
YODA : May the Force be with you.

OBI-WAN turns to leave, but QUI-GON continues to face the Council.

YODA : (Cont'd) Master Qui-Gon more to say have you?
QUI-GON : With your permission, my Master. I have encountered a vergence in
the Force.
YODA : A vergence, you say?
MACE WINDU : Located around a person?
QUI-GON : A boy... his cells have the highest concentration of
midi-chlorians I have seen in a life form. It is possible he was conceived
by the midi-chlorians.
MACE WINDU : You're referring to the prophesy of the one who will bring
balance to the Force...you believe it's this boy??
QUI-GON : I don't pressume...
YODA : But you do! Rrevealed your opinion is.
QUI-GON : I request the boy be tested.

The JEDI all look to one another. They nod and turn back to OBI-WAN and
QUI-GON.

YODA : Trained as a Jedi, you request for him?
QUI-GON : Finding him was the will of the Force...I have no doubt of that.
There is too much happening here...
MACE WINDU : Bring him before us, then.
YODA : Tested he will be.

INT. QUEENS QUARTERS - CORUSCANT - DAY Anakin, tentative, walks down one of
the long hallways in Senator Palpatine's quarters. He stops before a dor
that is flanked by TWO GUARDS.

GUARD : May I help you, son?
ANAKIN : I'm...I'm looking for the handmaiden, Padme.

The GUARD speaks into his comlink as ANAKIN looks around a bit nervously.

GUARD : The boy is here to see Padme.
RABE : Send him in.

The doors open, and ANAKIN enters the Queen's quarters.
RABE greets ANAKIN as TWO OTHER HANDMAIDENS come and go into the next room.

ANAKIN : I'd like to speak with Padme, if I could.
RABE : I'm sorry, Annie. Padme is not here right now.

The Queen speaks out in the next room.

AMIDALA : (O.S.) Who is it?
RABE : Anakin Skywalker, to see Padme, Your Highness.

The QUEEN moves into the doorway and studies ANAKIN. ANAKIN bows and looks
down, then takes a peek at her.

AMIDALA : I've sent Padme on an errand.
ANAKIN : I'm going to the Jedi temple to start my training, I hope.

The QUEEN just stares at him.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) I may not see her again...and... I just wanted to say
goodbye.
AMIDALA : We will tell her for you. We're sure her heart goes with you.

ANAKIN bows again.

ANAKIN : Thank you, Your Highness. I'm sorry to have disturbed you.

The QUEEN dissapears behind the doorway, and ANAKIN exits.

EXT. CORUSCANT - GALACTIC SENATE BUILDING - DAY (FX)

A large, distinctive looking domed building stands out amid the cityscape
of Coruscant.

INT. MAIN ROTUNDA - GALACTIC SENATE - DAY

The Senate chambers are huge. Thousands of SENATORS and their AIDES sit in
the circular assembly area. CHANCELLOR VALORUM sits in an elevated area in
the center. Hindreds of AIDES and DROIDS hurry about. SENATOR PALPATINE,
QUEEN AMIDALA, EIRTA, RABE, and CAPTAIN PANAKA sit in the Naboo
congressional box, which is actually a floating platform. PALPATINE leans
over to the QUEEN.

PALPATINE : If the Federation moves to defer the motion...Your Majesty,
Ibeg of you to ask for a resolution to end this congressional session.
AMIDALA : I wish I had your confidence in this, Senator.
PALPATINE : You must force a new election for Supreme Chancellor...I
promise you there are many who will support us...it is our best chance...
Your Majesty, our only, chance.
AMIDALA : You truely believe Chancellor Valorum will not bring our motion
to a vote?
PALAPATINE : He is distracted...he is afraid. He will be of no help.
VALORUM : The Chair recognizes the Senator from the sovereign system of
Naboo.

The Naboo congressional box floats into the center.

PALPATINE : Supreme Chancellor, delegates of the Senate. A tragedy has
occured on our peaceful system of Naboo. We have become caugt in a dispute
you're all well aware of, which began right here with the taxation of trade
routes, and has now engulfed our entire planet in the oppresion of the
Trade Federation.

A second box rushes into the center of the Senate. It is filled with
Federation trade barons led by LOTT DOD, the Senator for the Federation.

LOTT DOD : This is outrageous! I object to the Senator's statements!
VALORUM : The Chair does not recognize the Senator from the Trade
Federation at this time. Please return to your station.

LOTT DOD reluctantly moves back to his place.

PALPATINE : To state our allegations, I present Queen Amidala, the recently
elected ruler of Naboo, to speak on our behalf.

QUEEN AMIDALA stands and addresses the assembly. There is some applause.

AMIDALA : Honorable representatives of the Republic, distinguished
delegates, and Your Honor Supreme Chancellor Valorum, I come to you under
the gravest of circumstances. The Naboo system has been invaded by force.
Invaded...against all the laws of the Republic by the Droid Armies of the
Trade...
LOTT DOD : I object! There is no proof. This is incredible. We recommend a
commision be sent to Naboo to assertain the truth.
VALORUM : Overruled.
LOTT DOD : Your Honor, you cannot allow us to be condemned without
reasonable observation. It's against all the rules of procedure.

A third box representing Malastare moves into the center of the room. AKS
MOE, the Ambassador, addresses the convention.

AKS MOE : The Congress of Malastare concurs with the honorable delegate
from the Trade Federation. A commision must be appointed...that is the law.
VALORUM : The point...

VALORUM confers with several of his AIDES and VICE CHAIRMAN MAS AMEDDA.
PALPATINE whispers something to the QUEEN.

PALPATINE : Enter the bureaucrats, the true rulers of the Republic, and on
the payroll of the Trade Federation, I might add. This is where Chancellor
Valorum's strength will dissapear.
VALORUM : The point is conceded...Section 523A take precedence here. Queen
Amidala of the Naboo, will you defer your motion to allow a commission to
explore the validity of your accusations?

QUEEN AMIDALA is angry but remains composed.

AMIDALA : (angrily) I will not defer...I have come before you to resolve
this attack on our sovereignty now. I was not elected to watch my people
suffer and die while you discuss this invasion in a committee. If this body
is not capable of action, I suggest new leadership is needed. I move for a
"vote of no confidence"...in Chancellor Valorum's leadership.
VALORUM : What?...No!

This causes a great stir in the assembly. A loud mumur cresendos into a
roar of approval and jeers. CHANCELLOR VALORUM is stunned and stands
speechless. His Vice Chair, MAS AMEDDA, takes over.

MAS AMEDDA : Order! We shall have order...

Things settledown a little. The Federation box settles next to AMIDALA.
PRINCE BAIL ORGANA moves his box into the arena.

BAIL ORGANA : Alderaan seconds the motion for a vote of no confidence in
Chancellor Valorum.
MAD AMEDDA : The motion has been seconded by Bail Organa of Alderaan.

MAS AMEDDA turns to the confused VALORUM, and whispers something to him.

BAIL ORGANA : There must be no delays. The motion is on the floor and must
be voted upon in this session.
LOTT DOD : The Trade Federation moves the motion be sent to the procedures
committee for study.

The assembly begins to chant. VALORUM talks to MAS AMEDDA.

ASSEMBLY : Vote now! Vote now! Vote now!

PALPATINE stands next to AMIDALA.

PALPATINE : You see, Your Majaesty, the tide is with us...Valorum will be
voted out, I assure you, and they will elect in a new Chancellor, a strong
Chancellor, one who will not let our tragedy continue...
MAS AMEDDA : Thew Supreme Chancellor requests a recess. Tomorrow we will
begin the vote.

The Federation delegation is furious. VALORUM turns to PALPATINE.

VALORUM : Palpatine, I thought you were my ally...my friend. You have
betrayed me! How could you do this?

EXT. PALACE OF THE JEDI - BALCONY - SUNSET

OBI-WAN and QUI-GON stand outside the palace on a balcony.

OBI-WAN : The boy will not pass the Council's tests, Master, and you know
it. He is far too old.
QUI-GON : Anakin will become A Jedi...I promise you.
OBI-WAN : Don't defy the Council, Master..not again.
QUI-GON : I will do what I must.
OBI-WAN : Master, you could be sitting on the Council by now if you would
just follow the code. They will not go along with you this time.
QUI-GON : You still have much to learn, my young apprentice.

INT. PALACE OF THE JEDI - COUNCIL CHAMBERS - SUNSET

ANAKIN stands before the TWELVE JEDI. MACE WINDU holds a small hand-held
viewing screen. In rapid succession, images flash across the screen.

ANAKIN : A ship...a cup...a speeder.

MACE WINDU turns the viewing screen off and nods toward YODA.

YODA : Good, good, young one. How feel you?
ANAKIN : Cold, sir.
YODA : Afraid are you?
ANAKIN : No, sir.
MACE WINDU : Afraid to give up your life?
ANAKIN : I don't think so.

ANAKIN hesitates for a moment.

YODA : See through you, we can.
MACE WINDU : Be mindful of your feelings...
KI-ADI : YOur thoughts dwell on your mother.
ANAKIN : I miss her.
YODA : Afraid to lose her..I think.
ANAKIN : (a little angry) What's that got to do with anything?
YODA : Eveything. Fear is the path to the dark side... fear leads to
anger... anger leads to hate.. hate leads to suffering.
ANAKIN : (angrily) I am not afraid!
YODA : A Jedi must have the deepest commitment, the most serious mind. I
sense much fear in you.
ANAKIN : (quietly) I am not afraid.
YODA : Then continue, we will.

INT. PALPATINES QUARTERS - SUNSET

QUEEN AMIDALA is standing, staring out the window, with JAR JAR. The lights
of the city shimmer before them. EIRTAE and SABE stand near the door. JAR
JAR turns to face the QUEEN and sees her sadness.

JAR JAR : Mesa wonder why da guds invent pain?
AMIDALA : To motivate us, I imagine...
JAR JAR : Yousa tinken yousa people ganna die?
AMIDALA : I don't know.
JAR JAR : Gungans ganna get pasted too, eh?
AMIDALA : I hope not.
JAR JAR : Gungans do die'n without a fight.... wesa warriors. Wesa gotta
grand army. Dat why you no liken us, metinks.

PALPATINE and CAPTAIN PANAKA rush into the rom and bow before the QUEEN.

CAPT. PANAKA : Your Highness, Senator Palpatine has been nominated to
succeed Valorum as Supreme Chancellor.
PALPATINE : A surprise, to be sure, but a welcome one. I promise, Your
Majesty, if I am elected, I will bring democracy back to the Republic. I
will put an end to corruption. The Trade Fedreation will lose its influence
over the bureaucrats, and our people will be freed.
AMIDALA : Who else can be nominated?
CAPT. PANAKA : Bail Antilles of Alderaan and Ainlee Teem of Malastare.
PALPATINE : I feel confident...our "situation" will create a strong
sympaphy vote for us... I will be Chancellor, I promise you.
AMIDALA : I fear by the time you have control of the bureaucrats, Senator,
there will be nothing left of our cities, our people, our way of life...
PALPATINE : I understand your concern, Your Majesty; unfortunately, the
Federation has possession of our planet. The law is in their favor.
AMIDALA : With the Senate in transition, there is nothing more I can do
here...Senator, this is your arena. I feel I must return to mine. I have
decided to go back to Naboo. My place is with my people.
PALPATINE : Go back!! But, Your Majesty, be realistic! You would be in
danger. They will force you to sign the treaty.
AMIDALA : I will sign no treaty, Senator. My fate will be no different from
that of our people. Captain!
CAPT. PANAKA : Yes, Your Highness?
AMIDALA : Ready my ship!
CAPT. PANAKA : Please, Your Majesty, stay here...where it's safe.
AMIDALA : No place is safe, if the Senate doesn't condemn this invasion. It
is clear to me now that the Republic no longer functions as a democracy. If
you win the election, Senator, I know you will do everything possible to
stop the Federation. I pray you will bring sanity and compassion back to
the Senate.

AMIDALA and her RETINUE exit the room. PALPATINE has a self-satisfied smile
on his face.

INT. TEMPLE OF THE JEDI - COUNCIL CHAMBERS - TWILIGHT

ANAKIN, OBI-WAN, and QUI-GON stand before the TWELVE MEMBERS OF THE JEDI
COUNCIL.

YODA : ...Correct you were, Qui-Gon.
MACE WINDU : His cells contain a high concentration of midi-chlorians.
KI-ADI : The Force is strong with him.
QUI-GON : He's to be trained, then.

The COUNCIL MEMBERS look to one another.

MACE WINDU : No. He will not be trained.

ANAKIN is crestfallen; tears begin to form in his eyes.

QUI-GON : No??!!

OBI-WAN smiles.

MACE WINDU : He is too old. There is already too much anger in him.
QUI-GON : He is the chosen one...you must see it.
YODA : Clouded, this boy's future is. Masked by his youth.
QUI-GON : I will trin him, then. I take Anakin as my Padawan learner.

OBI-WAN reacts with surprise. ANAKIN watches with interest.

YODA : An apprentice, you have, Qui-Gon. Impossible, to take on a second.
MACE WINDU : We forbid it.
QUI-GON : Obi-Wan is ready...
OBI-WAN : Iam ready to face the trials.
YODA : Ready so early, are you? What know you of ready?

ANAKIN watches as QUI-GON and OBI-WAN exchange angry looks.

QUI-GON : Headstrong....and he has much to learn about the living Force,
but he is capabe. There is little more he will learn from me.
YODA : Our own council we will keep on who is ready. More to learn, he
has...
MACE WINDU : Now is not the time for this...the Senate is voting for a new
Spreme Chancellor. Queen Amidala is returning home, which will put pressure
on the Federation, and could widen the confrontation.
YODA : And draw out the Queen's attacker.
KI-ADI : Events are moving fast...too fast.
MACE WINDU : Go with the Queen to Naboo and discover the identity of the
dark warrior. That is the clue we need to unravel this mystery of the Sith.

YODA : Young Skywalker's fate will be decided later.
QUI-GON : I brought Anakin here; he must stay in my charge. He has nowhere
else to go.
MACE WINDU : He is your ward, Qui-Gon...we will not dispute that.
YODA : Train him not. Take him with you, but train him not!
MACE WINDU : Protect the Queen, but do not intercede if it comes to war
until we have the Senate's approval.
YODA : May the Force be with you.

OBI-WAN, QUI-GON, and ANAKIN leave.

EXT. CORUSCANT - SENATE LANDING PLATFORM - NIGHT

QUI-GON, OBI-WAN, and ANAKIN stand on the landing platform outside the
ship. ARTOO whistles a happy tune as he leans over the edge of the
platform, watching the traffic. Suddenly, he leans over too far and falls
overboard. After a moment, he reappears, using his on-board jets to propel
himself back onto the landing platform. The wind whips at ANAKIN as he
listens to the JEDI.

OBI-WAN : It is not disrespect, Master, it is the truth.
QUI-GON : From your point of view....
OBI-WAN : The boy is dangerous...they all sense it. Why can't you?
QUI-GON : His fate is uncertain, not dangerous. The Council will decide
Anakin's future...that should be enough for you. Now get on board!
OBI-WAN reluctantly boards the Naboo spacecraft followed by ARTOO. QUI-GON
goes over to ANAKIN.
ANAKIN : Master Qui-Gon, sir, I do not wish to be a problem.
QUI-GON : You won't be, Annie....I'm not allowed to train you, so I want
you to watch me and be mindful...always remember, your focus determines
your reality. Stay close to me and you will be safe.
ANAKIN : Master, sir...I've been wondering...what are midi-chlorians?
QUI-GON : Midi-chlorians are a microcopic lifeform that reside within all
living cells and communicates with the Force.
ANAKIN : They live inside of me?
QUI-GON : In your cells. We are symbionts with the midi-chlorians.
ANAKIN : Symbionts?
QUI-GON : Life forms living together for mutual advantage. Without the
midi-chlorians, life could not exist, and we would have no knowledge of the
Force. They continually speak to you, telling you the will of the Force.
ANAKIN : They do??
QUI-GON : When you learn to quiet your mind, you will hear them speaking to
you.
ANAKIN : I don't understand.
QUI-GON : With time and training, Annie...you will.

Two taxis pull up, and CAPTAIN PANAKA, SENATOR PALPATINE, TWENTY OR SO
TROOPS, GUARDS, and OFFICERS walk briskly toward the ship, followed by
QUEEN AMIDALA, PADME, EIRTAE, and finally, JAR JAR. AMIDALA and her
HANDMAIDENS stop before the JEDI.

QUI-GON : (Cont'd) Your Highness, it is our pleasure to continue to serve
and protect you.
AMIDALA : I welcome your help. Senator Palpatine fears the Federation means
to destroy me.
QUI-GON : I promise you, I will not let that happen.

AMIDALA enters the ship, followed by her HANDMAIDENS. JAR JAR hugs QUI-GON
and ANAKIN.

JAR JAR : Wesa goen home!

They ALL move onto the ship. The ship takes off.

INT. NABOO PALACE - THRONE ROOM - THEED - NIGHT

NUTE and RUNE stand before a hologram of DARTH SIDIOUS.

DARTH SIDIOUS : The Queen is on her way to you. I regret she is of no
further use to us. When she gets there, destroy her.
NUTE : Yes, my Lord.
DARTH SIDIOUS : Viceroy, is the planet secure?
NUTE : Yes, my Lord, we have taken over the last pockets of primitive life
forms. We are in complete control of the planet now.
DARTH SIDIOUS : Good. I will see to it that in the Senate, things stay as
they are. I am sending Darth Maul to join you. He will deal with the Jedi.
NUTE : Yes, my Lord.

DARTH SIDIOUS fades off.

RUNE : A Sith lord here with us?!!

INT. SPACE - NABOO SPACECRAFT COCKPIT

ANAKIN stands next to the PILOT, RIC OLIE, pointing to various buttons and
gauges.

ANAKIN : ...and that one?
RIC OLIE : The forward stabalizer.
ANAKIN : And those control the pitch?
RIC OLIE : You catch on pretty quick.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - QUEEN'S CHAMBERS

SABE and EIRTAE stand behind QUEEN AMIDALA as she talks with QUI-GON and
CAPTAIN PANAKA. OBI-WAN and JAR JAR watch.

CAPT. PANAKA : The moment we land the Federation will arrest you, and force
you to sign the treaty.
QUI-GON : I agree...I'm not sure what you hope to accomplish by this.
AMIDALA : I'm going to take back what's ours.
CAPT. PANAKA : There are only twelve of us, Your Highness....we have no
army.
QUI-GON : I cannot fight a war for you, Your Highness, only protect you.
AMIDALA : Jar Jar Binks!

JAR JAR looks around, puzzled.

JAR JAR : Mesa, Your Highness?
AMIDALA : Yes. I need your help.

INT. NABOO CRUISER COCKPIT - DAY

The Naboo Cruiser heads toward the lush green planet. There is only one
Federation battle cruiser orbiting. OBI-WAN and CAPTAIN PANAKA spot it on
the view screen.

PANAKA : The blockade's gone.
OBI-WAN : The war's over...No need for it now.
RIC OLIE : I have one battleship on my scope.
OBI-WAN : A droid control ship.
PANAKA : They've probably spotted us.
OBI-WAN ; We haven't much time.

INT. NABOO SPACECRAFT - MAIN HOLD

The QUEEN, CAPTAIN PANAKA, TROOPS, and HANDMAIDENS get ready to disembark
as the ship alnds. The elevator door slides open, and ANAKIN emerges into
the hold area. He see PADME and run up to her.

ANAKIN : Hi! Where have you been?
PADME : Annie! What are you doing here?
ANAKIN : I'm with Qui-Gon...but...they're not going to let me be a Jedi.
I'm too old.
PADME : This is going to be dangerous, Annie.
ANAKIN : Is it? I can help... Where are we going?
PADME : To war, I'm afraid. The Queen has had to make the most difficuld
decision of her life. She doesn't believe in fighting, Annie. We are a
peaceful people...
ANAKIN : I want to help...I'm glad you're back.

ANAKIN smiles. PADME smiles back.

EXT. NABOO SWAMP - DAY

The Naboo spacecraft has landed in the Gungan swamp. TROOPS unload the
ships in the background as OBI-WAN approaches QUI-GON.

OBI-WAN : Jar Jar is on his way to the Gungan city, Master.

QUI-GON's thoughts are elsewhere.

QUI-GON : Good.

OBI-WAN and QUI-GON stand silently for a moment.

OBI-WAN : Do you think the Queen's idea will work?
QUI-GON : The Gungans will not easily be swayed, and we cannot use our
power to help her.
OBI-WAN : I'm...I'm sorry for my behavior, Master. It is not my place to
disagree with you about the boy. I am grateful you think I am ready for the
trials.

QUI-GON looks at him for a long moment.

QUI-GON : You have been a good apprentice. You are much wiser than Iam,
Obi-Wan. I foresee you will become a great Jedi Knight.

EXT. NABOO SWAMP - UNDERWATER - DAY (FX)

JAR JAR swims down into Bubble City.

INT. OTOH GUNGA - CITY SQUARE

JAR JAR enters the main square of the bubble city. He stands, stunned, in
amazement and fear. He is nervous and shaking.

JAR JAR : Ello! Where das everybody?

The plaza is empty. He notices that many of the buildings are shot up as if
there had been a battle of some kind.

EXT. NABOO SWAMP LAKE - DAY

JAR JAR exits the swamp lake and walks over to QUEEN AMIDALA, CAPTAIN
PANAKA, OBI-WAN, and QUI-GON. PADME, EIRTAE, RABE, ANAKIN, and ARTOO,
FOUR
PILOTS, and EIGHT GUARDS stand in the background near the starship.

JAR JAR : Dare-sa nobody dare. All gone. Some kinda fight, I tink. Sorry,
no Gungas...no Gungas.
CAPT. PANAKA : Do you think they have been taken to camps?
OBI-WAN : More likely they were wiped out.
JAR JAR : No...mesa no tink so. Gungan hiden. When in trouble, go to sacred
place. Mackineeks no find them dare.
QUI-GON : Do you know where they are?

EXT. NABOO SWAMP - DAY

The GROUP follows JAR JAR as he moves through the swamp. JAR JAR stops and
sniffs the air. The GROUP stop behind him.

JAR JAR : Dissen it.

JAR JAR makes a strange chattering noise. Suddenly, out of nowhere, CAPTAIN
TARPALS and SIX OTHER GUNGAN TROOPS riding on KAADUS emerge from the brush.

JAR JAR : (Cont'd) Heyo-dalee, Captain Tarpals.
CAPT. TARPALS : Binks!! Noah gain!
JAR JAR : We comen to see da boss.

CAPTIAN TARPALS rolls his eyes.

CAPT. TARPALS : Ouch time, Binks... Ouch time for all-n youse.

EXT. NABOO SACRED TEMPLE RUINS - DAY

JAR JAR, QUEEN AMIDALA, ANAKIN, ARTOO, QUI-GON, OBI-WAN, PADME, RABE,
EIRTAE, and the rest of her group are led through a clearing full of GUNGAN
refugees. At the far end are the ruins of a grand temple with massive
carved heads. BOSS NASS and several other COUNCIL MEMBERS walk out on the
top of a three-quarter-submerged head.

BOSS NASS : Jar Jar, yousa payen dis time. Who's da uss-en others??

QUEEN AMIDALA steps forward. CAPTAIN PANAKA and the JEDI stand behind her.

AMIDALA : I am Queen Amidala of the Naboo...I come before you in peace.
BOSS NASS : Naboo biggen. Yousa bringen da Mackineeks... Dya busten uss-en
omm. Yousa all bombad. Yousa all die'n, mesa tink.

CAPTAIN PANAKA and HALF A DOZEN GUARDS and PILOTS look around nervously,
and the GUNGAN TROOPS lower their long power poles. The JEDI stay relaxed.
ANAKIN watches everything with great interest.

AMIDALA : We wish to form an alliance...

Suddenly, PADME steps forward.

PADME : Your Honor...

ARTOO whistles a quiet "uh oh."

BOSS NASS : Whosa dis?
PADME : I am Queen Amidala (points to Queen) This is my decoy...my
protection...my loyal bodyguard.

ANAKIN is stunned. OBI-WAN and QUI-GON give each other a knowing look.

PADME : (Cont'd) ...I am sorry for my deception, but under the
circumstances it has become necessary to protect myself. Although we do not
always agree, Your Honor, our two great societies have always lived in
peace...until now. The Trade Federation has destroyed all that we have
worked so hard to build. You are in hiding, my people are in camps. If we
do not act quickly, all will be lost forever...I ask you to help us...no, I
beg you to help us.

PADME drops to her knees and prostrates herself before BOSS NASS. There is
a gasp from CAPTAIN PANAKA, HIS TROOPS, and the HANDMAIDENS.

PADME : (Cont'd) We are your humble servants...our fate is in your hands.

Slowly, CAPTAIN PANAKA and his TROOPS bow down before the GUNGAN COUNCIL.
Then the HANDMAIDENS, ANAKIN, and finally the JEDI. The GUNGANS are puzzled
by this. BOSS NASS begins to laugh.

BOSS NASS : Yousa no tinken yousa greater den da Gungans.. Mesa like dis.
Maybe wesa bein friends.

INT. NABOO PALACE - THRONE ROOM - DAY

NUTE, RUNE, and DARTH MAUL walk with a hologram of DARTH SIDIOUS.

NUTE : ...we've sent out patrols. We've already located their starship in
the swamp....It won't be long, My Lord.
DARTH SIDIOUS : This is an unexpected move for her. It's too aggresive..
Lord Maul, be mindful.
DARTH MAUL : Yes, my Master.
DARTH SIDIOUS : Be patient... Let them make the first move.

EXT. NABOO EDGE OF SWAMP/ GRASS PLAINS - DAY

A GUNGAN SENTRY sits on top of the ancient temple heah, searching the
landscape with a pair of electrobinoculars. He sees something and yells
down to ANAKIN at the foot of the statue.

GUNGAN LOOKOUT : Daza comen!
ANAKIN : All right. They're here!

ANAKIN yells and runs over to PADME and the JEDI, who are discussing a
battle plan with FIVE GUNGAN GENERALS. SABE and EIRTAE stand nearby. BOSS
NASS puts his arm around JAR JAR.

BOSS NASS : Yousa doen grand. Jar Jar bringen da Naboo together.
JAR JAR : Oh, no, no, no...
BOSS NASS : So, wesa maken yousa Bombad General.
JAR JAR : General??! Oh, no..

JAR JAR's eyes roll back, his tongue flops out and he faints.
FOUR SPEEDERS pull up to the GROUP. CAPTAIN PANAKA and a DOZEN OR SO
GUARDS
and PILOT pile out and join the group.

PADME : What is the situation?
CAPT. PANAKA : Almost everyone's in camps. A few hundred police and guards
have formed an underground movement. I brought as many of the keaders as I
could. The Federation Army's also much larger than we thought, and much
stronger. Your Highness, this is a battle I do not think we can win.
PADME : The battle is a diversion. The Gungans must draw theDroid Army away
from the cities. We can enter the city using the secret passages on the
waterfall side. Once we get to the main entrance, Captain Pnaka will create
a diversion, so that we can enter the palace and capture the Viceroy.
Without the Viceroy, they will be lost and confused.

QUI-GON and OBI-WAN look on with interest.

PADME : (Cont'd) What do you think, Master Jedi?
QUI-GON : The Viceroy will be well guarded.
CAPT. PANAKA : The difficulty's getting into the throne room. Once we're
inside, we shouldn't have a problem.
QUI-GON : There is a possibility with this diversion many Gungans will be
killed.
BOSS NASS : Wesa ready to do are-sa part.

JAR JAR smiles a very worried and sheepish grin. ANAKIN watches with
interest, as does ARTOO.

PADME : We have a plan which should immobilize the Droid Army. We will send
what pilots we have to knock out the Droid control ship which is orbiting
the planet. If we can get past their rayshields, we can sever communication
and their droids will be helpless.
QUI-GON : A well-conceived plan. However, there's great risk. The weapons
on your fighters may not penetrate the shields on the control ship.
OBI-WAN : And there's an even bigger danger. If the Vicroy escapes, Your
Highness, he will return with another droid army.
PADME : That is why we must not fail to get to the Viceroy. Everything
depends on it.

INT. THEED - PALACE - THRONE ROOM - DAY

NUTE, RUNE, DARTH MAUL, OOM-9, and a hologram of DARTH SIDIOUS walk through
the throne room.

DARTH SIDIOUS : ...she is more foolish than I thought.
NUTE : We are sending all available troops to meet this army of hers
assembling near the swamp. It appears to be made up of primitives. We do
not expect much resistance.
OOM-9 : I am increasing security at all Naboo detention camps.
DARTH MAUL : I feel there is more to this, My Master. The two Jedi may be
using the Queen for their own purposes.
DARTH SIDIOUS : The Jedi cannot become involved. They can only protect the
Queen. Even Qui-Gon Jinn will not break that conenant.... This will work to
our advantage...
NUTE : I have your approval to proceed then, My Lord.
DARTH SIDIOUS : Proceed. Wipe them put...all of them. INT. NABOO SWAMP LAKE
- DAY (FX)

All is peaceful. SMALL CRITTERS drink out of a large swamp lake. Suddenly
there is a disturbance in the middle of the lake. A rush of bubbles, then a
GUNGAN SOLDIER riding a KAADU emerges from the water, followed by SEVERAL
OTHERS. FROGS and OTHER LITTLE ANIMALS flee in all directions as the GUNGAN
ARMY marches through the swamp. The KAADU shake themselves off as they exit
the lake. When JAR JAR's KAADU shakes off, JAR JAR falls off.
SOLDIERS on huge, lizard-like FAMBAAS with large shield generators mounted
on their backs follow the marching WARRIORS. The GUNGAN ARMY heads out of
the swamp and onto the rolling grassy hills.
HUNDREDS OF GUNGAN WARRIORS march in lon lines toward the horizon.
Federation tanks move up to a ridge and stop. In the distance they see the
GUNGAN ARMY marching toward them. The GUNGAN GENERAL CEEL sees the tanks on
the ridge and orders a halt. The GUNGANS are spread out in a large line.
JAR JAR is nervous. GENERAL CEEL signals to the shield operators.

GENERAL CEEL : Energize the shields.

A red ray shoots out of the generator and blasts into a large dish on the
back of a second FAAMBA and spreads like an umbrella over the assembled
WARRIORS.

EXT. THEED - CENTRAL PLAZA - DAY

PADME, followed by EIRTAE, OBI-WAN, QUI-GON, ANAKIN, and ARTOO, stealthily
makes her way toward the entrance to the main hanger. They are followed by
about TWENTY NABOO GUARDS, PILOTS, and TROOPS. They stop, and PADME uses a
small red laser light to signal across the plaza to CAPTAIN PANAKA, RABE
and TWENTY OTHER ASSORTED NABOO TROOPS. They signal back. QUI-GON leans
over to ANAKIN.

QUI-GON : Once we get inside, Annie, you find a safe placeto hide and stay
there.
ANAKIN : Sure.
QUI-GON : And stay there!

DROID TROOPS mill about the tank-filled plaza. At the far end of the plaza,
SEVERAL DROIDS begin to run and fire. NABOO SOLDIERS begin to fire back at
the BATTLE DROIDS.
As the ruckus erupts at one end of the plaza, PADME and her TROOPS rush
into the main hanger. CAPTAIN PANAKA and HIS SOLDIERS continue to engage
the DROIDS outside.

INT. THEED - CENTRAL HANGER - DAY

ALARMS ARE SOUNDING a PADME, the JEDI, ANAKIN, EIRTAE, and PADME's TROOPS
rush into the hanger. BATTLE DROIDS begin firing at them as they run for
cover. ANAKIN runs under a Naboo fighter. The JEDI deflect bolts aimed at
PADME back onto the BATTLE DROIDS, causing them to EXPLODE.

INT. THEED - PALACE THRONE ROOM - DAY

NUTE, RUNE, and FOUR COUNCIL MEMBERS watch the plaza battle on a large view
screen.

NUTE : I thought the battle was going to take place far from here...this is
too close!
RUNE : What is going on?

DARTH MAUL enters the throne room.

DARTH MAUL : I told you there was more to this...the Jedi are involved.

EXT. NABOO GRASS PLAINS - DAY (FX)

The Federation tanks begin to fire on the GUNGANS, but they are protected
by their energy shield. The tanks stop firing, and the GUNGANS CHEER, until
they see the doors to the massive transports open, and racks of BATTLE
DROIDS are pulled out and lined up by a squad of STAPS.
The BATTLE DROIDS reconfigure into their standing position. The GUNGANS get
ready for an attack. OOM-9 gives the command to move forward, and THOUSANDS
OF DROIDS march toward the GUNGANS.
The GUNGANS power up their weapons. The DROIDS slowly march through the
protective shield and start firing. The GUNGANS throw their power poles and
fling small balls of energy with slingshots. The WARRIORS dump large balls
of energy into mortars that heat up and fire the energy goo onto the BATTLE
DROIDS, causing them to short out.
The battle rages and the GUNGANS defend their shield generators against the
ARMY OF DROIDS. OOM-9 watches from a tank on a hill overlooking the battle.

INT. THEED - CENTRAL HANGER - DAY

ANAKIN hides behind one of the Naboo fighters, ducking as large bolts whiz
past and EXPLODE near him. PADME and the TWO JEDI destroy BATTLE DROIDS
right and left. The QUEEN'S TROOPS and EIRTAE also blast away at the
DROIDS. PADME signals to her pilots.

PADME : Get to your ships!

The PILOTS and ARTOO UNITS run for the Naboo fighter craft stacked in the
hanger bay. ONE OF THE PILOTS jumps into a fighter right above where ANAKIN
is hiding.

FIGHTER PILOT : Better find a new hiding place, kid. I'm taking this ship.

The ship begins to levitate out of the hanger. BATTLE DROIDS fire at it as
it falls in behind five other fighters. ARTOO whistles to ANAKIN from a
second fighter not far away. ANAKIN runs and jumps into the second fighter
to hide.

EXT. THEED - CENTRAL PLAZA - DAY (FX)

Two Naboo starfighters exit the main hanger. A tank fires at them, hitting
one of them, which causes it to pinwheel into the ground and EXPLODE.

INT. THEED - CENTRAL HANGER - DAY

CAPTAIN PANAKA, SABE and NABOO TROOPS rush into the hanger and overwlm the
few remaining BATTLE DROIDS. PADME, OBI-WAN, and QUI-GON join forces with
CAPTAIN PANAKA.

PADME : My guess is the Viceroy is in the throne room.

She looks to QUI-GON.

QUI-GON : I agree.

They start to head for the exit, on the way passing the fighter where
ANAKIN is hiding. ARTOO whistles a greeting as ANAKIN peeps out of the
cockpit.

ANAKIN : Hey! Wait for me.
QUI-GON : No, Annie, you stay there. Stay right where you are.
ANAKNI : But, I...
QUI-GON : Stay in that cockpit.

They head for the exit. As they are about to go through the door, suddenly
everyone scatters, revealing DARTH MAUL standing in the doorway. CAPTAIN
PANAKA, PADME, and HER TROOPS back away. QUI-GON and OBI-WAN step forward.

QUI-GON : (Cont'd) We'' handle this...

The TWO JEDI take off their capes and ignite their laser swords. DARTH MAUL
takes off his cape, and ignites his laser sword. Both ends of the sword
light up.
At the far end of the hanger, SIX WHEEL DROIDS roll in and transform into
their battle position. ARTOO calls ANAKIN's attention to the DROIDS. The
JEDI begin to fight the Sith Lord.

ANAKIN : Oh, no...

The DROIDS begin to advance and start firing on PADME and HER TROOPS.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) We gotta do something, Artoo.

ARTOO whistles a reply. Suddenly, the ship's systems go on, and the ship
begins to levitate.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) All right, thanks Artoo! Great idea! I'll take over.
Let's see...

ANAKIN steers the ship toward the DROIDS. He pushes a button, and the ship
begins to shake.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Where's the trigger? Oops, wrong one.. Maybe this one....

ANAKIN pushes a second button, and the lasers begin to fire, wiping out
several DESTROYER DROIDS. ARTOO whistles a cheer.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Yeah, all right. "Droid blaster." Yeah!

The JEDI are engaged in a fierce sword fight with DARTH MAUL. They have
moved into the center of the hanger. While the WHEEL DROIDS are momentarily
distracted by ANAKIN, CAPTAIN PANAKA, PADME, and HER TROOPS exit into a
palace hallway.
The WHEEL DROIDS start firing at ANAKIN. There are EXPLOSIONS all around
him.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Oops...shield up! Always on the right...shields always on
the right.

ANAKIN flips several switches, and the after-burner ignites.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) I know we're moving. I'll shut the energy drive down.

The fighter rockets out of the hanger. ARTOO and ANAKIN hold on for dear
life.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Oops!! Wrong one.

ARTOO beeps.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) I'm not doing anything!

ARTOO beeps.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) I know...I didn't push anything.

The SITH LORD's moves are incredible. He is fighting the TWO JEDI at once,
flipping into the air, outmaneuvering them at every turn.

INT. NABOO STARFIGHTER - COCKPIT - SPACE

The Naboo fleet leaves the planet and heads toward the space station.

RIC OLIE : Bravo Flight A, take on the fighters. Flight B, make the run on
the transmitter.
BRAVO TWO : Roger, Bravo Leader.

The fleet approaches the space station. Many Federation fighters exit the
hangers and attack.

RIC OLIE : Enemy fighters straight ahead!

EXT. NABOO GRASS PALINS - DAY

JAR JAR's clumsiness works for him in the battle. He gets caught up in the
wiring of a blasted DROID, dragging the torso around with him, the DROID's
gun firing randomly, accidently blasting SEVERAL DROIDS in one process.
OOM-9 decides to send in the WHEEL DROIDS and gives the signal. HUNDREDS OF
WHEEL DROIDS roll out of the transports and head down toward the battle.
They slowly roll through the deflector shields, then transform themselves
once they get on the other side. The GUNGANS blast the WHEEL DROIDS with
energy balls. The DESTROYER DROIDS blast many GUNGANS.

INT. NABOO STARFIGHTER - COCKPIT - SPACE

A giant dogfight ensues. ANAKIN's fighter flies into space above Naboo.
ARTOO beeps a worried concern.

ANAKIN : The Autopilot is searching for what other ships?

ARTOO beeps and whistles.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) There is no manual override, Artoo. You'll have to rewire
it or something.

ARTOO chirps that he's trying.

ANAKIN : (cont'd) Look! There they are! That's where the autopilot is
taking us.

ANAKIN's fighter flies toward the Federation Battleship.

INT. THEED - CENTRAL HANGER - DAY

The SITH LORD drives the JEDI out of the hanger and nto the power generator
area next door.

INT. THEED - POWER GENERATOR PIT - DAY

Three swords are crossed in an intense display of swordmanship. The JEDI
and the SITH LORD fight their way across the narrow bridge of the Theed
power generator. DARTH MAUL jumps onto the bridge above them. The JEDI
follow, one in front of the SITH LORD and one behind. They continue their
sword fight.

INT. THEED - PALACE - HALLWAY - DAY

PADME, CAPTAIN PANAKA, EIRTAE, SABE and THIER TROOPS are trapped in a
hallway by BATTLE DROIDS.

PADME : We don't have time for this, Captain.
CAPT. PANAKA : Let's try the outside stairway.

CAPTAIN PANAKA blasts a hole in the window, and they make their way outside
the building onto a ledge about six stories above a raging waterfall. SABE,
EIRTAE and about TWENTY NABOO SOLDIERS stay in the hallway to hold off the
BATTLE DROIDS.

EXT. THEED - PALACE - OVER WATERFALL - DAY

PADME, CAPTAIN PANAKA, and about TEN OTHER NABOO SOLDIERS are lined up
along the edge. They have pulled small attachments out of their pistols and
fire at a ledge about four stories above them. Thin cables shoot out of the
pistols and are embedded into the ledge. PADME, CAPTAIN PANAKA, and the
OTHERS begin to climb up the wall.

EXT . NABOO GRASS PLAINS DAY

The GUNGAN ARMY is no match for the DESTROYER DROIDS. JAR JAR tries to run
from the BATTLE DROIDS.

GENERAL CEEL : Retreat! Retreat!

The GUNGANS begin to turn and run, on foot, on their kaadu, and in wagons.
JAR JAR attempts to escape on a wagon of energy balls but only manages to
unhitch the back gate, causing all of the energy balls to roll out of the
wagon and down the hill. JAR JAR scrambles to avoid being hit by one of the
balls. FOUR DESTROYER DROIDS aren't so lucky. They get blasted by the
energy balls.
The GUNGANS renew their attack on the DROID ARMY. JAR JAR's bumbling
destroys several more DESTROYER DROIDS.

INT. NABOO STARFIGHTER - COCKPIT -SPACE

ANAKIN finds himself in the middle of the space battle. A ship explodes
behind him (over his left shoulder).

ANAKIN : Whoo, boy! This is tense!

He looks forward to see enemy ships approaching head on.

ANAKN : (Cont'd) : Oops! Artoo, get us off Autopilot!

ARTOO screams a reply.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) I've got control?

ANAKIN fips switches.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Okay, let's go left!

He moves the controls left and the ship responds, turning left.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Yes...I've got control. You did it, Artoo!

ARTOO beeps

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Go back!?! Qui-Gon told me to stay in this cockpit and
that's what I'm gonna do. Now c'mon!

An enemy fighter comes into his sights. ANAKIN pushes the controls and
instead of firing, his fighter accelerates past the enemy ship.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Oops! Whoa!

Now the enemy ship is on his tail. He tries evasive maneauvers.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) I'll try spinning, that's a good trick.

ANAKIN rolls the ship as ARTOO screams desperately.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) I know we're in trouble! Hang on! The way out of this
mess is the way we got into it.

ARTOO beeps a reply.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Which one? This one?

ANAKIN yanks on the reverse thrusters and the ship slows instantly- the
enemy fighter shoots past and explodes against the space station.

INT. NABOO STARFIGHTER - COCKPIT - SPACE

The SQUADRON attacks the space station.

RIC OLIE : Bravo flight...go for the central bridge.
BRAVO TWO : ROger, Bravo Leader.

The attack is fruitless.

RIC OLIE : Their deflector shield is too strong. We'll never get through
it.

Meanwhile, ANAKIN is being chased by another fighter. ARTOO shrieks.

ANAKIN : I know, Artoo! This isn't Podracing!

The enemy ship fires and hits ANAKIN's fighter, sending it into a spin.
ARTOO screams.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) We're hit!

ANAKIN regains control as his ship enters the space station hanger.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Great gobs of bantha poo-doo!

ANAKIN's ship dodges parked transport ships and other obstacles. A huge
bulkhead blocks his way. ARTOO beeps.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) I'm trying to stop! I'm trying to stop! Whoa!

ANAKIN hits the reverse thrusters and the ship skids to a stop on the
hanger deck. ARTOO givesout a worried whistle.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) All right! All right! Get the system started!

ANAKIN ducks down to adjust a control panel.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Everything's overheated. All the lights are red.

ARTOO sees DROIDS appraoching, and beeps frantically.

INT. THEED - POWER GENERATOR PIT - DAY

The laser sword battle continues on the small catwalk around the vast power
pit. DARTH MAUL kicks OBI-WAN off one of the ramps and he falls several
levels. QUI-GON knocks the DARK LORD off another ramp, and he lands hard on
a ramp two levels below. QUI-GON jumps down after him. The DARK LORD backs
away along the catwalk into a small door. QUI-GON follows as OBI-WAN runs
to catch up.

INT. THEED - POWER GENERATOR ELECRIC BEAM - HALLWAY

The SITH LORD, followed by QUI-GON, enters a long hallway filled with a
series of deadly rays that go on and off in a pulsing pattern that shoots
down the corridor every minute or so. DARTH MAUL makes it down several
walls of deadly rays before they close. QUI-GON is one wall away from the
DARK LORD. OBI-WAN is just starting into it and is five walls way from
DARTH MAUL.
The JEDI must wait until the next pulse to advance down the corridor.
OBI-WAN is impatient and paces, waiting for the wall of rays to open.
QUI-GON sits and meditates. The SITH LORD tries to patch up his wounds.

INT. THEED - PALACE - HALLWAY TO THRONE ROOM

A window in the hallway blasts apart. PADME, CAPTAIN PANAKA, and HER
SOLDIERS climb into the hallway. They head for the door to the throne roo.
Suddenly, two DESTROYER DROIDS skitter in front of the door. PADME turns
around and sees TWO MORE appear at the far end of the hallway, trapping
them in the middle.
PADME throws down her pistol and turns to CAPTAIN PANAKA.

PADME : Throw down your weapons. They win this round.
CAPT. PANAKA : But we can't....
PADME : Captain, I said throw down your weapons.

CAPTAIN PANAKA and HIS MEN throw down their weapons.

EXT. NABOO GRASS PLAINS - DAY

A DESTROYER DROID blasts one of the shield generators, causing it to
EXPLODE. The protective shield begins to weaken and fall apart.OOM-9 sees
the shield weaken and orders his tanks forward. The GUNGAN GENERAL signals
a retreat as the tanks enter the battle.
The GUNGANS flee as fast as they can. JAR JAR is blown off his KAADU and
lands on one of the tank guns. A GUNGAN WARRIOR signals JAR JAR to jump
off. JAR JAR is afraid. The gun swings around trying to knock JAR JAR off.
JAR JAR hangs from the tank barrel as it moves along. Finally, he jumps
onto a KAADU behind a GUNGAN WARRIOR. EXPLOSIONS from the tank fire are
everywhere. It is chaos.

INT. THEED - POWER GENERATOR ELECTRIC BEAM - HALLWAY

The electric rays cycle as QUI-GON sits meditating. The wall of the deadly
rays turn away, and OBI-WAN starts running toward QUI-GON and the DARK
LORD. When the wall between QUI-GON and DARTH MAUL opens, QUI-GON is in a
split second fighting the DARK LORD with a ferocity not seen before. They
move into the area at the end of the corridor called the melting pit, a
small area that is mostly made up of a deep hole.
The electron ray gates begin to close. OBI-WAN tries to make it to the
melting pit but is caught one gate short. He slides to a stop just before
he hits the deadly electron field.
QUI-GON and DARTH MAUL battle around the melting pit as a frustrated
OBI-WAN watches.
DARTH MAUL cathces QUI-GON off guard. The SITH makes a quick move, bashes
his lightsaber handle into QUI-GON's chin, and runs him through. QUI-GON
slumps to the floor in a heap.

EXT. NABOO GRASS PLAINS - DAY

The GUNGANS have beeb overrun. Some flee into the hills, chased by BATTLE
DROIDS on STAPS. Many OTHERS are herded into groups by BATTLE DROIDS and
DESTROYER DROIDS.
JAR JAR and GENERAL CEEL are held in a small group with OTHER OFFICERS.

JAR JAR : Dissa bad, berry bombad.
GENERAL CEEL : Mesa hopen dissa working for da Queen.

INT. THED - PALACE THRONE ROOM - DAY

PADME, CAPTAIN PANAKA, and SIX OTHER OFFICERS are brought by TEN BATTLE
DROIDS before NUTE and RUNE and FOUR NEIMOIDIAN COUNCIL MEMBERS.

NUTE : Your little insurrection is at an end, Your Highness. Time for you
to sign the treaty...and end this pointless debate in the Senate.

SADBE dressed like the Queen appears in the doorway with SEVERAL TROOPS.
Several destroyed battle droids can be seen in the distance.

SABE : I will not be signing any treaty, Viceroy, because you've lost!

NUTE and THE OTHERS are stunned to see a SECOND QUEEN. NUTE yells at the
TEN GUARDS in the room.

NUTE : After her! This one is a decoy!

SIX OF THE DROIDS rush out of the throne room after SABE. NUTE turns to
PADME.

NUTE : (Cont'd) Your Queen will not get away with this.

PADME slumps down on her throne and immediately hits a security button that
opens a panel in her desk opposite CAPTAIN PANAKA.
PADME grabs two pistols, tosses one of the to CAPTAIN PANAKA and one to an
OFFICER. She takes a third pistol and BLASTS the last of the BATTLE DROIDS.
The OFFICERS rush to the door control panel as PADME hits the switch to
close the door. The OFFICER at the door jams the controls. CAPTAIN PANAKA
throws more pistols to the OTHER GUARDS. The NEIMODIANS are confused and
afraid.

PADME : Now, Viceroy, this is the end of your occupation here.
NUTE : Don't be absurd. There are too few of you. It won't be long before
hundreds of destroyer droids break in to rescue us.

INT. THEED - POWER GENERATOR - MELTING PIT

OBI-WAN screams as the pulsing electron gate opens, and the SITH LORD
attacks him. The DARK LORD is relentless in his assault on the young JEDI.
OBI-WAN and DARTH MAUL use the Force to fling objects at each other as they
fight. DARTH MAUL seems to have the upper hand as OBI-WAN grows weary.
DARTH MAUL catches OBI-WAN off guard, and the JEDI slips into a melting
pit. He is barely able to hold onto a nozzle on the side of the pit. DARTH
MAUL grin evilly at OBI-WAN as he kicks OBI-WAN's lightsaber down the
endless shaft.
The SITH LORD smiles as he goes in for the kill. At the last moment,
OBI-WAN jumps up out of the pit, calls QUI-GON's lightsaber to hi, throwing
DARTH MAUL off. The young JEDI swings with a vengeance, cutting the SITH
down. DARTH MAUL falls into the melting pit to his death.
OBI-WAN rushes over to QUI-GON, who is dying.

OBI-WAN : Master! Master!
QUI-GON : It is too late...It's...
OBI-WAN : No!
QUI-GON : Obi-Wan promise...promise me you'll train the boy...
OBI-WAN : Yes, Master...
QUI-GON : He is the chosen one...he will...bring balance...train him!

QUI-GON dies. OBI-WAN cradles his Master, quietly weeping.

INT. NABOO STARFIGHTER - COCKPIT - FEDERATION HANGER

ANAKIN peeks over the edge of the cockpit to see BATTLE DROIDS surrounding
the ship. He ducks back down.

ANAKIN : Uh oh. This is not good.

He looks at the dashboard to see red lights.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) The systems are still overheated, Artoo.

The BATTLE DROID CAPTAIN walks up to the ship and sees ARTOO.

BATTLE DROID CAPTAIN : Where's your pilot?

ARTOO beeps a reply.

BATTLE DROID CAPTAIN : (Cont'd) You're the pilot?

ARTOO whistles.

BATTLE DROID CAPTAIN : (Cont'd) Let me see your identification!

ANAKIN sees the dashboard lights go from red to green.

ANAKIN : Yes...we have ignition.

He flips the switch and the engine starts.

BATTLE DROID CAPTAIN : (seeing Anakin) You! Come out of there or we'll
blast you!
ANAKIN : Not if I can help it! Shields up!

ANAKIN flips a switch and the ship levitates, knocking over the BATTLE
DROID CAPTAIN. The OTHER DROIDS shoot, but the lasers are deflected by
ANAKIN's shields. ARTOO beeeps.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) This should stop them.

ANAKIN fires lasers as the ship begins to rotate.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) ...and take this!

He presses a button and launches two torpedos which miss the DROIDS.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Darn...I missed!

The two torpedos fly down a hallway and explode inside the reactor room.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Let's get out of here!

ANAKIN's ship roars through the hanger deck, bouncing over the DROIDS.

ANAKIN : (Cont'd) Now, this is Podracing! Whoopee!

INT. FEDERATION BATTLESHIP - BRIDGE

TEY HOW turns to CAPTAIN DOFINE.

TEY HOW : Sir, we're losing power... There is some problem with the main
reactor...
DOFINE : Impossible!! I don't...

The bridge explodes.

INT. NABOO FIGHTER - COCKPIT - SPACE

RIC OLIE watches in amazement as the Federation battleship starts to
explode from the inside out.

BRAVO TWO : What's that?? It's blowing up from the inside.
RIC OLIE : I don't know, we didn't hit it.
BRAVO THREE : Look! One of ours! Outta the main hold!!

EXT. NABOO GRASS PLAINS - DAY

Suddenly, all of the DROIDS begin to shake upside down, run around in
circles, then stop. The GUNGANS carefully move out to inspect the FROZEN
DROIDS. JAR JAR pushes one of the BATTLE DROIDS, and it falls over.

JAR JAR : Wierdind...

EXT. THEED - CENTRAL HANGER - DAY

ANAKIN and ARTOO follow the squad of yellow Naboo starfighters into the
main hanger.

INT. THEED - CENTRAL HANGER - DAY

RIC OLIE and the OTHER PILOTS gather around as thye exit their ships.

BRAVO TWO : He flew into the hold, behind the deflector shield and blasted
the main reactor...
BRAVO THREE : Amazing... They don't teach that in the academy.

ANAKIN's ship skids to a stop behind the other Naboo starfighters. RIC
OLIE, BRAVO TWO, the OTHER PILOTS, and GROUND CREW rush to his ship.

RIC OLIE : We're all accounted for. Who flew that ship?

ANAKIN sheepishly opens the cockpit and stands up. All the PILOTS stare in
amazement.

ANAKIN : I'm not going to get into trouble, am I?

ARTOO beeps. oh. oh.

INT. MAIN HANGER - COURTYARD - DAY

The large, grand cruiser of the Supreme Chancellor lands in the courtyard
of the main hanger. CAPTAIN PANAKA and TWENTY TROOPS guard NUTE GUNRAY and
RUNE HAAKO. OBI-WAN, the QUEEN, and her HANDMAIDENS stand before the
NEIMOIDIANS.

PADME : Now, Viceroy, you are going to have to go back to the Senate and
explain all this.
CAPT. PANAKA : I think you can kiss your Trade franchise goodbye.

The main ramp of the cruiser is lowered as OBI-WAN and CAPTAIN PANAKA lead
the VICEROY and HIS ASSISTANT toward the ship. The GRAND CHANCELLOR
PALPATINE and SEVERAL REPUBLIC GUARDS descend the walkway, followed by YODA
and SEVERAL OTHER JEDI MASTERS.

The CHANCELLOR PALPATINE is greeted by the QUEEN.

AMIDALA : Congratulations on youer election, Chancellor. It is so good to
see you again.
PALPATINE : It's good to be home. Your boldness has saved our people, Your
Majesty. It is you who should be congratulated. Together we shall bring
peace and prosperity to the Republic.

OBI-WAN greets YODA and the OTHER JEDI as CAPTAIN PANAKA takes the
NEIMODIANS onto the cruiser.

INT. TURRET ROOM - NABOO PALACE - LATE DAY

The sun streams into the multi-windowed room at a low angle. It is not
quite sunset. YODA paces before OBI-WAN, who is kneeling in the center of
the room.

YODA : Confer on you, the level of Jedi Knight the Coucil does. But agree
on you taking this boy as your Padawan learner, I do not.
OBI-WAN : Qui-Gon believed in him. I believe in Qui-Gon.
YODA : The Chosen One the boy may be; nevertheless, grave danger I fear in
his training.
OBI-WAN : Master Yoda, Igave Qui-Gon my word. I will train Anakin. Without
the approval of the Council if I must.
YODA : Qui-Gon's defiance I sense in you. Need that, you do not. Agree, the
council does. Your apprentice, young Skywalker will be.

EXT. THEED - CENTRAL PLAZA - FUNERAL TEMPLE STEPS - SUNSET

QUI-GON's body goes up in flames as the JEDI COUNCIL, the QUEEN, SIO
BIBBLE, CAPTAIN PANAKA, the HANDMAIDENS, and ABOUT ONE HUNDRED NABOO
TROOPES, TWENTY OTHER JEDI, PALPATINE, OBI-WAN (standing with ANAKIN), JAR
JAR, BOSS NASS, and TWENTY OTHER GUNGAN WARRIORS watch. There is a drum
roll that stops. Doves are released, and the body is gone. ANAKIN looks to
OBI-WAN.

OBI-WAN : He is one with the Force, Anakin...You must let go.
ANAKIN : What will happen to me now?
OBI-WAN : I am your Master now. You will become a Jedi, I promise.

To one side, MACE WINDU turns to YODA.

MACE WINDU : There is no doubt. The mysterious warrior was a Sith.
YODA : Always two there are....no more...no less. A maste and an
apprentice.
MACE WINDU : But which one was destroyed, the master or the apprentice?

They give each other a concerned look.

EXT. THEED - CENTRAL PLAZA - DAY

CHILDEREN SING and throw flowers on the passing GUNGAN SOLDIERS. The CROWDS
CHEER. It is a grand parade.
QUEEN AMIDALA stands next to the SUPREME CHANCELLOR PALPATINE, ANAKIN,
OBI-WAN, SIO BIBBLE, and the JEDI COUNCIL. ARTOO stands in front of the
QUEEN'S HANDMAIDENS and whistles at the parade. QUEEN AMIDALA and PALPATINE
smile at one another
In the parade are BOSS NASS and his GUARDS, JAR JAR and GENERAL CEEL. The
GUNGANS ride KAADU. They stop before the QUEEN and walk up the steps to
stand by her side.BOSS NASS holds up the Globe of Peace. EVERYONE CHEERS.
The parade marches on.

IRIS OUT

End titles


